# Node.js Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting 2023-11-29

## Links

* **Recording**:
* **GitHub Issue**: <https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/1476>
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rIyGl0PyVORxRF_0hEDGZd-qdNKU5OnmJbAgME7zbww/edit>

## Present

* Michaël Zasso @targos (voting member)
* Yagiz Nizipli @anonrig (voting member)
* Gireesh Punathil @gireeshpunathil (voting member)
* Joyee Cheung @joyeecheung (voting member)
* Chengzhong Wu @legendecas (voting member)
* Matteo Collina @mcollina (voting member)
* Rafael Gonzaga @RafaelGSS (voting member)
* Darshan Sen @RaisinTen (voting member)
* Robert Nagy @ronag (voting member)
* Richard Lau @richardlau (voting member)
* Antoine du Hamel @aduh95 (voting member)
* Ruben Bridgewater @BridgeAR (voting member)

## Agenda

### Announcements

* Node.js v21.3.0 postponed because of bugs
* Node.js v18.19.0 last “big release” for 18.x
  * 364 commits
  * it will ship the new off-thread ESM module loader (might affect ts-node/tsx/etc. users)

### CPC and Board Meeting Updates

* The community fund has not been extended by the Board in 2023

### nodejs/node

* build: use biome as formatter [#50672](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/50672)
  * yagiz: 96% compatible with prettier
  * yagiz: some concerns about binary size.
  * yagiz: should we include a formatter of the JS code
  * joyee: we should add a formatter that format diffs, instead of formatting full files, otherwise it would become very hard to backport. Biome does not currently support that.
  * yagiz: there are some missing features: a. diff-based formatter (to add), b. binary files (can be resolved by using wasm). Biome can also be a dependency of ncu, similar to how we do the c++ linting.
  * joyee: human verification is needed, CI must be run on the formatted code.
  * matteo: will we remove eslint?
  * yagiz: no
  * joyee: lets install biome like we install clang-format
* util: move deprecated utils to runtime deprecation [#50488](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/50488)
  * landed.
* The env var `NODE_V8_COVERAGE` intermittently causes the process to hang [#49344](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/49344)

### nodejs/TSC

* Update meeting times [#1469](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/1469)
  * Proposal sent, will implement unless concerns by end of meeting
* Automating Flaky Test Detection [#1458](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/1458)
  * richard: do we have any concern about security releases?
  * joyee: what they need is sending the junit xml to the server, but it must be done in a safe way for security. Detecting flaky tests is not a problem (we already the automation), the problem is fixing them! If they do the work, no objection
  * richard: this needs a champion on Build, because they would need the permissions to edit the Jenkins config.
  * joyee: can we implement some automation to store them in git?
  * richard: integrate something in our make script would make things significantly simpler.
  * joyee: move the the build repo.

### nodejs/admin

* Have a mascot [#828](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/issues/828)
  * the TSC is voting
* Create `nodejs/socket` repository for Node.js implementation of Cloudflare's Socket API [#826](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/issues/826)
  * legendecas: WinterCG is still figuring out the process to publish standards. Not a blocker for creating a repo
  * joyee: it likely make more sense to move that implementation in WinterCG
  * legendecas: that would be the Node.js implementation for the socket standard
  * joyee: polyfills are created in the same repo/org where they are developed.
  * joyee to comment on the issue
* Events / Collaborator Summits for 2024 [#814](https://github.com/nodejs/admin/issues/814)

## Strategic Initiatives

* ronag: Node.js write corrupted files with IO\_URING is enabled.
* legendecas: ShadowRealm supports user-land modules, next step is to decide on the built-in modules exposed in the ShadowRealm.
