# MINUTES OF THE PUBLIC SESSION OF A REGULAR MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

7 December 2015

A public session of a regular meeting of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Node.js Foundation, a Delaware not-for-profit membership corporation, was held on 7 December 2015 at 5:00pm Pacific Time both face-to-face and via teleconference.

## Participants

### Directors

* Todd Moore (IBM)
* Gianugo Rabellino (Microsoft)
* Rich Sharples (Red Hat)
* Charlie Robbins (GoDaddy)
* Brian McCallister (Groupon)
* Rod Vagg (NodeSource)
* Scott Hammond (Joyent)
* Danese Cooper (PayPal)
* Imad Sousou (Intel)

### Counsel

* Andrew Updegrove (Gesmer Updegrove LLP)

### Also Participating

Todd Benzies (The Linux Foundation)
* Mikeal Rogers (The Linux Foundation)
* Greg Wallace (The Linux Foundation)
* Scott Nicholas (The Linux Foundation)
* Bert Belder (StrongLoop)

## Meeting
### Call to Order


Director Cooper called the meeting to order at 5:02pm Pacific Time and Mr. Benzies recorded the minutes. A quorum of Directors was established for the conduct of business and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

#### Antitrust Compliance Notice

Mr. Rogers reviewed the Antitrust Compliance Notice contained within the agenda deck distributed for the meeting.

#### Current Membership

Mr. Rogers reviewed the current membership and Directors, noting that Yahoo! has joined as a Silver member.

#### Approval of Minutes

Mr. Rogers asked the Directors to approve the minutes of the public session of the November 2, 2015 meeting of the Board of Directors, which had been attached as Exhibit A to the slide deck distributed in advance of the meeting. Upon motion duly made by Director Rabellino, seconded by Director Hammond and approved by all Directors in attendance save for Director McCallister who abstained, the following resolution was adopted:

_RESOLVED:_
> That the minutes of the public session of the November 2, 2015,meeting of the Board of Directors, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, are hereby confirmed, approved and adopted.

#### Agenda

Mr. Rogers introduced the agenda. There were no additional topics added.

#### Libuv Overview

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of a libuv and provided an overview as to why the TSC and current libuv contributors agree that is should be in the Node.js Foundation.

A question was raised about what we would be done differently than before. Mr. Rogers clarified that the TSC would create a new contribution policy tailored specific to libuv. Mr. Rogers also noted that the Foundation would use community outreach, social media, and also continue to assign more mentors.

A question was raised as to whether it was C++? Mr. Roger clarified that yes, it is.

Mr. Belder provided an overview of the work that needs to be done.

Upon motion duly made by Director Moore, seconded by Director Robbins and approved by all Directors in attendance, the following resolution was adopted:

_RESOLVED:_
> That the board hereby admits the libuv project into the Foundation’s incubator under the supervision of the TSC.

A question raised about logistics. Mr. Rogers noted that this will information will now go back to TSC to notify them that libuv has been admitted. At that point, the TSC will assign mentors.

A question was raised about when this will be announced. Mr. Rogers noted that this is slotted in a press release scheduled for tomorrow, 8 December 2015.

#### TSC Update

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of the TSC progress and asked Director Vagg to provide an update.

Director Vagg provided an overview of the security releases, noting that in all, there were a total of 4 vulnerabilities fixed in the latest release. Director Vagg encouraged anyone running Node.js to upgrade to the new version. Director Vagg noted that the full details can be found on the Node.js Foundation blog.

#### Discussion: Foundation Strategy in 2016

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of 2016 strategy for the Foundation.

A question was raised to Director Vagg regarding what the project needs from a technical perspective. Director Vagg noted that it depends on V8, which has the

potential to change the Node.js API. He noted they will have to be adaptive and decide how much to include and to keep up with the desired us. Director Vagg noted that more work has to be done in platform support in the IoT space. He also noted that inclusivity and diversity are very important topics.

A question was raised to Director Vagg as to whether the technical community is short any resources. Director Vagg noted that the technical community is getting good resources, build and infrastructure are good, but OS X may be a challenge.

Director Cooper noted that compatibility across the different flavors of Node.js is important. She also noted that conference outreach is key for this project.

Mr. Rogers noted that the Marketing Committee has been discussing doing smaller, monthly events, similar to Node on the Road.

A question was raised regarding the location of key communities in different geographies that may not be being addressed sufficiently. Mr. Rogers noted that npm can share where their users are and that the community also has a map that pulls together where local meetups are and from this, the Marketing Committee can evaluate targeting.

Director Hammond added that a combination of big events, like Node.js Interactive, and smaller events, like Node on the Road, would be a good approach.

A question was raised about the top-level goals for the Foundation as to whether it was to increase popularity, increase users, or something different. Mr. Rogers noted that there are 3.3 million users right now and that the number is growing 100% year-over-year. Mr. Rogers added that this means that 50% of people every month are entirely new, which adds unique challenges.

A question was raised about the security process. Mr. Rogers noted that when the Foundation revved on the security process, they brought in Emily Ratliff from the Linux Foundation to help advise on best practices. Mr. Rogers has noted that the feedback has been positive since then.

Director Rabellino noted that we should attempt to identify which users need support beyond what the community is already provided and focus our efforts there.

Several Directors mentioned that developing personas would be very helpful.

A question was raised about diversity initiatives. Mr. Rogers noted that there is an inclusivity working group that is pulling together a code of conduct and could also help drive some diversity initiatives.

Director Cooper noted that there is criticism is that the Node.js Foundation is too US-centric.

Director Robbins noted that membership growth should be a goal.

## Adjournment

At 5:59pm Pacific Time, upon motion duly made by Director Cooper and seconded by Director Hammond, the Directors voted to adjourn the public session of the meeting of

the Board of Directors.

Respectfully submitted,

\__________________________

Gianugo Rabellino