# MINUTES OF THE PUBLIC SESSION OF A REGULAR MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

25 April 2016

A public session of a regular meeting of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Node.js Foundation, a Delaware not-for-profit membership corporation, was held on 25 April 2016 at 2:00pm Pacific Time via teleconference.

## Participants
### Directors

* Charlie Robbins (GoDaddy)
* Feross Aboukhadijeh (individual Member)
* Rich Sharples (Red Hat)
* Rod Vagg (NodeSource)
* Todd Moore (IBM)
* Gianugo Rabellino (Microsoft)
* Scott Hammond (Joyent)
* Danese Cooper (PayPal)

### Counsel

* Andrew Updegrove (Gesmer Updegrove LLC)

### Also participating

* Todd Benzies (The Linux Foundation)
* Mikeal Rogers (The Linux Foundation)
* Colleen Evans (Microsoft)
* Michael Dolan (The Linux Foundation)
* Tracy Hinds (The Linux Foundation)
* Scott Nicholas (The Linux Foundation)

## Meeting
### Call to Order

Director Cooper called the meeting to order at 2:05pm Pacific Time and Mr. Benzies recorded the minutes. A quorum of Directors was established for the conduct of business and the meeting, having been duly convened, was ready to proceed with business.

#### Antitrust Compliance Notice

Mr. Rogers reviewed the Antitrust Compliance Notice.

#### Current Membership and Board Directors

Mr. Rogers reviewed the current membership.

#### Agenda

Mr. Rogers introduced the agenda. There were no additional topics added.

#### Node.js in the Media

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of Node.js in the Media, noting that March was the best month yet. Mr. Rogers reviewed the media highlights from a recent survey conducted by the Foundation and noted that it has been helping with Node Everywhere messaging.

A question was raised as to what RedMonk’s suggestions were. Mr. Rogers noted that RedMonk highlighted the disparity in number of years among IoT developers and that most IoT in Node.js are older and more experienced, not just hobbyists.

#### Q1 2016 Metrics

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of Q1 2016 Metrics noting that web traffic is up 25%, release downloads grew by 26%, and the npm registry grew by 18%.

#### TSC Update

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of a TSC update and asked Director Vagg to provide an update. Director Vagg noted that Node.js v6 should be released tomorrow and provided a few highlights. Nearly doubled list of ES6 features. require() performance is four times that of v4\. Buffer security improvements. First release that does not break C++ API (native add-ons for v5 only need to re-compile for v6).

#### Commits to Core Branches

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of commits to core branches, noting that it is a little down from record high in February. Mr. Rogers clarified that coming into major release, it is not abnormal to see a slight decline.

#### Events Update

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of an events update, noting that Node.js LIve Paris had the best content of any Live event yet and that the Foundation will be promoting the videos shortly. Mr. Rogers added that the Live event series has allowed the Foundation to iterate and improve on all event work.

Mr. Rogers noted that the promo plan for Node.js Interactive is being finalized and tha ta formalized list of tracks will go up this week. Mr Rogers also noted that Node.js Interactive will include a “Code and Learn,” “Collaborator Summit,” and “NodeTogether” alongside each event.

A question was raised as to whether a blog will go out with this information. Mr. Rogers clarified that the content is good, so a blog or Medium is likely. Mr. Rogers took the action to sync with the Foundation PR team.

A question was raised as to whether the Code and Learn is a revamped format. Mr. Rogers clarified that it is not really a revised format and that it is aimed towards people that want to learn about core.

#### Budget

Mr. Rogers introduced the topic of budget, noting that the previously approved budget runs from June 2015 through June 2016\. Mr. Rogers noted that Mr. Benzies and he are working on a reforecasted budget that will run through December 2016 and that the Audit and Finance Committee will meet in early June to review the suggested budget prior to the June Board meeting.

## Adjournment


At 2:23pm Pacific Time, Director Cooper adjourned the meeting.

Respectfully submitted,

\__________________________

Gianugo Rabellino