# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-08-02
## Links

* **Recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Vv5JrFuaIM>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#140](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/160)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W690JFykwVpN_V8zCSs_6yDTnFqAgE3juRz5k28SMWg>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZoLJImAGLJxivjLyCqzl7qXpjTOts1cKLwiR2XnzOLA>_
## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* Matteo Collina @mcollina (CTC)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)

### Observers
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (GoDaddy/TC39)
* Guy Bedford @guybedford


## Agenda

* announcements
* review previous meeting

### nodejs/node

* Cleanup `_writableState` and `_readableState` access across codebase [#445](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/445)

### nodejs/node-eps

* proposal: ES module resolver spec for package.json "module" property [#60](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/60)


## Previous Meeting Review

* meta: semver impact of Error messages [#13937](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/13937)
  * Conclusion: They’re semver-major for now; beyond that, back to GitHub.
* proposal: ES module resolver spec for package.json "module" property
[#60](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/60)
  * Postponed to this meeting.
* Turbofan + Ignition release plan && comms plan
[#155](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/155)
  * Back to GitHub.
* doc: charter the Release working group
[#223](https://github.com/nodejs/LTS/pull/223)
  * Back to GitHub.

## Minutes

### Announcements
* LTS release yesterday
* 8.3.0 RC today, call to everybody to download and test.
  * https://nodejs.org/download/rc/v8.3.0-rc.0/ is the first rc

### Review of previous meeting
* see notes above in section title “Previous Meeting Review”

### proposal: ES module resolver spec for package.json "module" property [#60](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/60)
* want to get initial feedback to see if there is any support and it
  is worth working on.
* TC39 did not chose to standardize module, but this does not prevent
  us from doing so, that is what we need to discuss.
* guybedford: has seen a number of proposals but before he depends
  on something he wants more confidence that Node.js is heading
  in that direction.
* Fishrock: other impls don’t need to implement everything were as we
  are waiting for new APIs in V8 which is slowing us down.
* Bradley: to use dynamic or dynamic meta we need to wait on changes
  from the V8 team (they are working on it).
* Fishrock: was just adding that this is why it is taking us longer to
  get to an implementation as opposed to a pipeline tool like webpack.
* guybedford: motivation is not to push through quickly but to
  ensure we have doc as to the direction we are planning to go as
  opposed to obsolete proposals
* Nikita: best would have been if everybody agreed on “use module”
  from the start. Would work in both browser and Node.js.  Looks like
  That won’t happen so “use module” does not have any good sides since
  it won’t be supported in browsers. At this point seems like “.mjs”
  is the way things are going to go. So now supports targeting “.mjs”
  as its the only option.  If library mostly targets browsers they
  will probably just use “.js” when they get complaints that it
  does not work in Node.js they still won’t want to rename to “.mjs” 
  So good to have flag that tells Node.js that whole package is
  targeted as modules. Would remove that option once “.mjs:” becomes
  More widely adopted.  So in favor as a temporary measure to
  ease friction.
* Ali: TC39 chose not to adopt because they did not consider it a
  language concern but instead a platform concern. Use module could
  be ignored by browsers and Node.js could use it.  
* Nikita: use module only has value if browsers are going to respect
  it.  If they do not then use module would not become the standard
  so .mjs would be better and browsers have always ignored extensions.
* Bradley: would like more feedback on this, at TC39 there was 
  discussion of a 3rd parse goal, that might result in 3rd field in 
  package.json if we went this way.
* Fishrock: 2 things that favor this approach where it is not 
  per file. Some cases where other people special case based on
  file type and we don’t do that. Because of how browsers load
  files they only specify from the very top level, they specify at
  the top only the type of module, might even be close to have it
  as a node flag (but maybe not).
* Bradley: We cannot put it as a global flag unless we are going
 Do deprecate common.js as some point
* Fishrock: we will need something for the repl
* Bradley: that only applies to one thing like standard in
* guy: one argument against he can see is performance.  Counter
  argument is that we already do up to 4 different extension checks so
  It is not that much of a delta.  From his perspective in the name
  of usability is this something that we can entertain.
* Fishrock: not sure performance was raised for “.mjs” approach but
  would have been for double parse.  If you require a specific file
  in a module
* Matteo: problem is that for any given file, if imported it needs
  to resolve up to the root of the file system to figure out type.
* Guy: that case would likely be the entry point to the application so
  once cached would only happen once.
* Matteo: would need to be walked down every time you run a test in 
  Node code. It would be once for every time for Node.js start (which
  corresponds to each test in the node.js tests)
* Fishrock: file extension based approach, less out of band info, and
  would be less confusing in the long term as getting rid of common.js
  will be difficult/take a long time. File extension makes it easy
  for a person to figure out which mode it is going to execute in.
* Rich: Guy, do you have enough feedback to figure out your next steps
* Guy: Good to understand some of the concerns. Would like to see more
  feedback on the PR and.
* Fishrock: Just to add, in previous discussions there was not much of
  a positive in keeping single file extension
* Matteo: what stops this proposal from being implemented on top of
  Node.js ? That would allow some use by ecosystem and feedback.
* Rich: approach was to let “.mjs” land first before pushing this
  forward ?
* Guy: yes, but would like to have it be something active as opposed
  to history of inactive proposals.
* Nikita to add some more details through email.


### Cleanup `_writableState` and `_readableState` access across codebase [#445](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/445)
* Matteo: brought up a vm summit that we should discuss in streams WG
  as to what we should do about it.  At the time suggested new
  Properties be added so that all use cases could be supported
  without accessing private properties.  Some objections that we
  we're adding even more properties.  Question is should we keep
  doing down that route or stick with _ properties. Other option
  is to remove _ but we don’t really want to expose directly.  Other
  option is to create additional objects, but due to perf don’t
  want to do that.
* Rich: do we need more time ?
* Nikita: can we just chose property names that don’t conflict.
* Michael: current approach is adding methods to get state instead of
  Internal state
* Matteo: Approach was to add getters, concern was mostly around
  impact of adding new methods.



### Target date for ratification of Release WG

### [More robust stringification for] promises(https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/13784)

* Michael want to get this moving.
* We agreed to call for vote in issue on concept and we will
  review results in next meeting if necessary.

## Q&A, Other

Youtube live chat: Is it good to use global variables.
Michael: best to avoid as it can cause some problems in certain use cases (ex Node.js being loaded as shared libraries)

Bradley: from browsers, general negative view on implementing browser specific modules.


## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.

