# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-03-29

## Links

* **Audio recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NzzRR9e0uPM
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#85](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/85)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nIXl2UMQs1n-yPencn53MYlfu3RnUltX3MfuaStPzx8>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZbzN6qO9AqmGjOMR-wfWTmdeE_69rr1hcfhk2oTUGpA>_

## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Franziska Hinkelmann @fhinkel (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Seth Thompson @s3ththompson (observer/Google)
* MichaëZasso @targos (CTC)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)


## Standup

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
  * Issues & PR review
  * ABI-stable native module API review in particular
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
  * CC port for ESM underway
  * onboarded Guy Bedford from SystemJS to help
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
  * Mostly issue and PR cNothing worth mentioning
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * Issues and PRs.
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * nothing of note
* Franziska Hinkelmann @fhinkel (CTC)
  * PR backlog
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * Promise Unhandled rejection GC new pr thing https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/12010
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
  * landing PRs getting ready for 8.0.0
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * Away last week at Devoxx conference
  * Build WG meeting
  * AIX/disk speed discussions
  * N-API review/work
  * foundation npm user
  * misc review/comment/land
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * _Finally_ finished next set of `fs` optimizations
  * Updated/Rebased own open PRs
  * Commented on issues, reviewed PRs
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
  * not too much of note
* Seth Thompson @s3ththompson (observer/Google)
  * v8 team working on landing TurboFan + Ignition in V8 5.9 
* MichaëZasso @targos (CTC)
  * Nothing of note
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
  * asynchooks PR
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * lots of little things, but let's talk about Buffer right now...

## Agenda

### nodejs/node

* buffer: auto random fill Buffer(num) and new Buffer(num) [#11808](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/11808)
* buffer: discuss future direction of Buffer constructor API [#9531](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9531)

## Previous Meeting Review

* buffer: discuss future direction of Buffer constructor API [node#9531](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9531)
* module: add support for abi stable module API [node#11975](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/11975)

## Minutes

### buffer: auto random fill Buffer(num) and new Buffer(num) [#11808](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/11808) and buffer: discuss future direction of Buffer constructor API [#9531](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9531)

* Rich started by framing the current state of the issue. Some
  consensus that we should do something.  Had looked like 
  option to do opt-in deprecate flag was non-controversial, but
  seems like there is some questioning/objections.  
* We may need to start with if we are going to state that it 
  will be deprecated at some point as that affects people's
  decisions on the other issues.
* James: we need 3 distinct votes
  * commit to runtime deprecation and timeframe
  * do we put in pending deprecation
  * do we random fill or zero fill by default, and do we backport
* Let's start with are we going to commit to deprecate or not
  * James, feedback from module developers, don't do it, zero fill
    by default instead, most people did not think it should be
    Backported.
  * Ali, spreadsheet before option of additional flag ? does this
    affect how people voted, 
  * James, don't think we are going to reach natural consensus, 
    need vote.  Seconded by Rich

  * Vote1: Should we now commit to deprecating Buffer() constructor
    at a specific point in the future or leave it as is.
    Specifically, deprecating all combinations of Buffer()
    constructor that are not specifically required by
    subclassing Uint8Array.
    Specific point might mean a specific version or when the
    ecosystem usage drops below threshold, or something else 
    (a separate question). I.e. are we going to announce now that
    this is going to be runtime-deprecated at some future point,
    possibly without defining that future point now.

    **YES** (**Commit** to deprecating): @chalker, @targos, @mscdex, @fhinkel

    **NO** (Do not **commit** to deprecating): @evanlucas, @addaleax, @jasnell,
      @ofrobots, @Fishrock123, @mhdawson, @cjihrig

    **ABSTAIN**: @trott, @trevnorris

    Need to take back to github, to get additional CTC members to vote.

  * Vote2: Do we do a conditional pending deprecation warning.
    Normal deprecation warning which will only be seen if they opt in with
    a flag.  

    **YES**: @chalker, @ofrobots, @targos, @trott, @addaleax, @mhdawson, 
      @jasnell

    **NO**: @cjihrig, @evanlucas, @mscdex, @fhinkel

    **ABSTAIN**: @fishrock123, @trevnorris

    Take back to github and get additional votes.

  * Vote3: Do we switch to automatically fill for 8.0 and higher.
  
    **Zero**: @jasnell, @fishrock123, @ofrobots, @trevnorris, @mhdawson,
      @targos, @addaleax, @evanlucas, @cjihrig
      
    **Random**: @addaleax, @cjihrig, @targos, @fhinkel
    
    **Neither**: @mscdex, @chalker
    
    **Abstain**: 

  * Vote 4: If we choose to fill, do we backport (semver-minor)

    **ALL**: @fishrock123, @trott, @jasnell
  
    **7**:
  
    **6**:
  
    **4**:
  
    **NONE**: @mscdex, @mhdawson, @evanlucas, @fhinkel
  
    **ABSTAIN**: @targos, @cjihrig, @addaleax, @ofrobots
  
    **ABSTAIN ONLY IF ALL**: @chalker (NO for partial backport)

    Take vote back to github to collect rest of votes

## Q&A, Other

* question about what kinds of questions are ok. General questions
  are ok, but those requesting help are best raised in the help repo.
* question about what would be the best database to use with node. 
  Suggestion was to raise in the help repo

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kap.co_i17i575te0aes6kaanfjr2e4hs%40group.calendar.google.com

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.

* **Collaborators Summit**: May 4-5,
  [summit#39](https://github.com/nodejs/summit/issues/39)
* **TC39 Meetup**: May 22,
  [CTC#67](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/67)
* **Call with V8 team**: March 30, 6 am CEST    (in ~11 hours)
  [CTC #76] (https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/76)        
* **CTC**: Apr 5, 2000 UTC
