# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-01-04

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DLxF9dRGIRw>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#54](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/54)
* **Minutes Google Doc**:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ttXIoBjO-V9u6lb-c6PvvS4Au3AtnXu1AeWbV-mfKso>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/19-jajhdzTbO9RwOEKsZ74Lsw7Xx-uF41Nsx2LNdz0RI>_

## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Myles Borins @MylesBorins (CTC)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (CTC)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/TC39)

## Standup

* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * Some test PRs. Reviewing issues and PRs.
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * Working more on allowing a buffer in crypto.randomBytes
  * Working on v7.4.0 release proposal
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * holidays, misc minor stuff
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
  * Vacation! Glorious vacation!
  * Reviewing and landing PRs
  * Working on URL and HTTP/2 stuff
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
  * Some diagnostics PRs
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * On vacation the last few weeks
  * This week catching up on issues and reviewing PRs
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Submitted PRs for various optimizations in core, more to come
  * Reviewed PRs, commented on issues
* Myles Borins @MylesBorins (CTC)
  * Released latest 4 / 6
  * Reviewed PRs, commented on issues
  * Changed my online handle
  * General work on citgm
* Michaël Zasso @targos (observer)
  * PR review and issue comment
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (CTC)
  * child_process signal issues
  * PR reviews
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
  * vacation, some async hooks stuff
  * Thorsten Lorenz helping to write docs and tests
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * onboarded @joyeecheung
  * test/doc/tool PRs
  * PR/issue review/comment


## Agenda

* Landing npm 4 into node 7
  [node#10505](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10505)
* console.log and util.format should support the %i integer conversion
  [node#10292](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10292)
* timers: cleanup extraneous property on Immediates
  [node#10205](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10205)
* process: Add code to warnings, assign codes to deprecations
  [node#10116](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10116)
* doc: Deprecate old debug protocol
  [node#10320](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10320)
* [WIP] Restore copyright attribution
  [node#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
* Updating the Copyright
  [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)


---

## Previous Meeting Review

* deps: upgrade npm to 4.0.5
  [node#10330](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10330)
* console.log and util.format should support the %i integer conversion
  [node#10292](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10292)
* timers: cleanup extraneous property on Immediates
  [node#10205](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10205)
* [WIP] Restore copyright attribution
  [node#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
* process: Add code to warnings, assign codes to deprecations
  [node#10116](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10116)
* Updating the Copyright
  [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)
* CTC Meeting Times for 2017
  [CTC#49](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/49)


---

## Minutes

### Landing npm 4 into node 7 [#10505](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10505)

@Fishrock123: Some minor breaking changes, should we include in a Node 7
release? It’s already in master.

Would allow us to test npm@4 earlier and gauge problems encountered by users.

@jasnell: Would like it to sit in our master for a couple weeks so people have a
chance to try it.

@Fishrock123: npm prereleases are more often tested directly, not through
bundling in Node.

We could consider an RC and seek testers, but we could also ask people to update
to npm4 and test without an RC.

@MylesBorins: We could wait till later in 7 lifetime to reduce amount of time we
have to support it.

@Fishrock123: We would most likely revert if problems arose.

@EvanLucas: Better to include now and thereby prepare people for Node 8.

@jasnell: If anyone is opposed they should raise their concerns within the
issue/PR. Otherwise we have consensus.

**Next steps**:

- Be prepared for quick reversion if necessary.
- Include in 7.4 release (Evan Lucas).

---

### console.log and util.format should support the %i integer conversion [#10292](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10292)

@Fishrock123: This is not necessarily a single issue, what is the question we
are addressing here?

@joshgav: Seems there is a greater issue of what standard `console` behavior
should be, and whether we should adhere to existing quasi-standard behaviors.

@jasnell: Comparable to work on URL spec.

@Fishrock123: That’s what the WHATWG console spec is meant to address, but it’s
not complete.

@MylesBorins: Meta-issue is whether we should work with WHATWG to arrive at
common conventions. Issue is that browsers will dominate discussion.

@Fishrock123: Much work on timers has been to make Node’s behavior as close to
browser behavior as possible.

@evanlucas: API needs for console in Node are different than in browsers.

@bmeck: Inspector hooks into our Console API. So console.log output is captured
by the inspector as well. It patches console.log to do this.

@jasnell: Likely because we’ve never given an API to hook into console output.

@bmeck: They also add console.group and others.

@Fishrock123: Question is: Are we interested in following a proper console spec?

@jasnell: Should this consideration hold up this issue/PR?

@evanlucas: This issue could be handled in userland, like the ‘printf’ module.

@bmeck: We actually ship two different consoles - the Inspector console API is
different.

Differences between our console and WHATWG console are mostly documented in this
issue and its inline links.

**Next steps**:

- More investigation into WHATWG work, if we should participate in that work,
  and if we should follow the final spec.
- Continue discussion in GitHub.


---

### timers: cleanup extraneous property on Immediates [#10205](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10205)

@Fishrock123: An extra property (\_callback) was added 2-3 months ago which just
copies another property (\_onImmediate) but actually behaves a bit differently
2-3 months ago. Other similar extraneous properties from similar APIs have been
removed; this seems to be of the same category.

@jasnell: Any evidence that it’s actually in use?

@trott: Okay with landing this PR, but concerned about hand-wavey nature of
determining whether something is semver-major.

@jasnell: If it’s in 6 we should take it through a deprecation cycle, if it’s
only in 7 we can remove immediately.

@mhdawson: If it’s in an LTS it should go through a deprecation cycle.

@jasnell: For clarity to ecosystem it’s better to take these through a
deprecation cycle.

@Fishrock123: Adding deprecation wrapper may slow down/deopt setImmediate.

@jasnell: If we ensure our code avoids the deprecated property we would avoid
any deopt or slow down.

@trevnorris: Almost everything in Node is somehow accessible publicly. Does this
mean that any internal change has to be deprecated first?

@jasnell: We need a better policy to define what must be deprecated.

And perhaps to define what is internal and what is a public API.

@jasnell: Because this is in LTS it would be better to go through a deprecation
cycle.

@trevnorris: Let’s take to a vote in the PR.

**Next steps**:

- Vote in PR.
- Review James’ issue on deprecation policies
  [#7964](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7964)

---

### process: Add code to warnings, assign codes to deprecations [#10116](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10116)

Deprecation policy discussion:
[nodejs/node#7964](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7964)

@jasnell put on agenda to ensure all review and get some LGTM’s.

- Adds a static ID (number) to all deprecations.
- Adds a runtime flag to redirect deprecation warning output to a file.
- Also allows us to gather all deprecations in one place in docs.

Goal is to make dealing with deprecations easier.

@Fishrock123: Really old deprecations should have reduced information in docs.

**Next steps**:

- Review this PR.

---

### doc: Deprecate old debug protocol [#10320](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10320)

Doc-only deprecation is also considered semver-major, but we should go ahead and
land now.

@Fishrock123: Aren’t we violating our own policies in deprecating and removing
this?

@mhdawson: Because it’s dependent on V8 we’re limited in our options.

@jasnell: Although not ideal, best to include deprecation now in Node 7.

What about runtime deprecation?

@joshgav: A PR is open, needs some updates:
<https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10276>

@trott: Can we include a runtime deprecation before we have `node-inspect`?
That is, should we wait till node-inspect is properly bundled and `node inspect` can
replace `node debug` till including a runtime deprecation?

@joshgav: Can break up 10276 into 2 PR’s, one for `--debug` deprecation
(listener) and one for `node debug` (CLI debugger). `node debug` is dependent on
landing `node-inspect` in master.

**Next steps**:

- Land docs deprecation.
- Continue discussion on runtime deprecation.


---

### [WIP] Restore copyright attribution [#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)

### Updating the Copyright [#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)

Two PRs:
1. To revert to previous state including Joyent attribution.
   [#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
2. To shift to new header format.
   [#10599](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10599)

(1) has been requested by the Legal Committee. For questions, go through
@mikeal.
(2) requires more review and Legal Committee signoff.

Encourage folks to review.

@trevnorris: Can these land at the same time, back-to-back?

Probably not, depends on legal committee review.

---

## Q/A on public channels

Someone: Using npm@4 for a while without issues.

---

## Upcoming Meetings

Node.js Foundation Calendar:
<https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kap.co_i17i575te0aes6kaanfjr2e4hs%40group.calendar.google.com>

* CTC: 2017-Jan-11, 2000 UTC
* TSC: 2017-Jan-12, 2000 UTC
* Benchmarking for January: <https://github.com/nodejs/benchmarking/issues/84>

