# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-04-26

## Links

* **Audio recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a5l1ga_KxrY>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#111](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/111)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jxUvnQwtB6G08FfMDjVOWd_giulbVmmBXqXxB_QpzF4>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MGY5jZYpI2SMR4YKS3iKVG9LfQTv5Lez5-0LNpuYRek>_

## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Franziska Hinkelmann @fhinkel (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/TSC)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Myles Borins @MylesBorins (CTC)
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)

## Standup

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
  * Continuing on Promise stuff
  * Code & Learn in Oakland
  * More general Issue & PR review
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
  * Was absent, trying to catch up.
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * Nothing of note. Issues and PRs
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * Started working on the next v7.x release. Ran into some build issues
* Franziska Hinkelmann @fhinkel (CTC)
  * nothing of note
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * nothing in particular
  * fixed a silly meta-git file casing issue thing, I guess
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
  * PRs, issues, etc.
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/TSC)
  * some issue review
  * Diag WG meeting tomorrow (Thursday)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * N-API documentation PR
  * A few N-API test additions
  * Nightly benchmark run for Canary
  * Misc community meetings
  * Some planning for collab summit
  * Ongoing review of issues/PRs/lands
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Trying to keep up with my open PRs
  * Reviewing other PRs, commenting on issues
* Myles Borins @MylesBorins (CTC)
  * Digging into CITGM Fails
  * TF + I write up for foundation medium
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
  * Nothing of note.
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
  * Nothing of note. Catching up after holiday.
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * Code + Learn in Oakland


## Agenda

* Locking LTS staging branches (@mylesborins)
* Uniform way to trigger debugger on first line [node#12630](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/12630)

## Previous Meeting Review

* src: update --inspect hint text [node#11207](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/11207)

## Minutes

### Locking LTS staging branches (@mylesborins)

First meeting of backport team a couple weeks ago. Working out how to distribute work on backporting to more people.

Proposal: Make staging branches for LTS branches only writable by LTS team. Would be *only* once a version transitions to LTS status (e.g. in October).

@mylesborins will also open a proposal to lock release branches to release team.

@rvagg: Can others open PRs against those branches? @mylesborins: I think so. If something blocks workflows we'll revert to current permissions.

**Next steps**

* @mylesborins to implement the proposal.

---

### Uniform way to trigger debugger on first line [node#12630](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/12630)

Request to add back --debug-brk as flag to break on first line of script, as --inspect-brk isn't available 6.3->7.?.

@mylesborins: Vendors want a consistent API. IMHO we should come up with a reasonable API for 8 and go from there.

@mhdawson: Makes sense to start fresh and decide what's best.

@Trott: Let this continue on GitHub for another week, then determine if further action is needed.

**Next steps**

* Continue discussion in GitHub.

## Q&A, Other

### Q: @refack: Can we negotiate a GYP handoff to Node.js?

See also [nodejs/ctc#110](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/110).

Google/V8 moving to gn. gyp will "just work" for a while longer with no major changes, and Node can pick parts we need from gn.

@mylesborins: Two items to consider re gyp: 1) building Node itself with gyp, 2) building add-on modules with node-gyp.

If we forked/took over maintenance of gyp we could: remove code we don't need; and plan transition to gyp.js or the like.

@mylesborins: Suggest spinning a team out of the Build WG to investigate.

@fhinkel: No problem with forking. Owned by Chromium team (not V8 specifically).

### Q: What's new in Node 8?

* N-API as experimental
* WHATWG URL implementation out of experimental
* V8 Inspector out of experimental, old API removed
* HTTP/2 (June)

### Q: Should I use NAN or N-API in 8?

@mhdawson: Module authors should try it out, but for production continue to use NAN.

@jasnell: While in experimental state breaking changes are likely.

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=nodejs.org_nr77ama8p7d7f9ajrpnu506c98%40group.calendar.google.com>

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.

* **Collaborators Summit**: May 4-5,
  [summit#39](https://github.com/nodejs/summit/issues/39)
* **TC39 Meetup**: May 22,
  [CTC#67](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/67)        
* **CTC**: May 3, 0500 UTC
