# TC39-TG5-1 - 2024-03-27

**Remote attendees:**
| Name              | Abbreviation | Organization |
| ----------------- | ------------ | ------------ |
| Mikhail Barash    | MBH          | UiB          |
| Yulia Startsev    | YSV          | Mozilla      |
| Michael Ficarra   | MF           | F5           |
| Jack Works        | JWK          | Sujitech     |
| Nicolò Ribaudo    | NRO          | Igalia       |
| Jesse Alama       | JMN          | Igalia       |
| Chris de Almeida  | CDA          | IBM          |
| Michael Dyck      |              |              |

## Meeting:

1. Intro (slides)
1. Areas of investigation (slides)
1. Discussion
  1. MF: very interested in executable specifications and what makes that easy/hard
  1. [MF] on customisability: the editor group has discussed how we could really use different views of the same algorithm for different readers (implementers vs programmers), but it's a tricky problem
  1. We could have an implementers mechanics view (for example for generators)
  1. [YS] We had some discussion with Istvan regarding Using AI to assist in standards document navigation
  1. [MF & MB] Generating Natural language for specification text / summaries in natural language
  1. [in chat] Tools for Ecmarkup would be nice
  1. [MF] We’ve spent a lot of time in the editor group refining the formalism for the specification. Can summarize the concepts that we’ve discussed.

1. Charter (ad hoc discussion)
  1. [MF] what is the status on that?
  1. We have a scope and program of work. Looks like we are most of the way there. We just need a description of how we are working together.
  1. TODO: Mikhail will do this. MF will help / review.
  1. Responsible Conduct of Research (slides)
1. Discussion
  1. [YS & MF] Should we only run studies with universities? Universities do have frameworks for maintaining metainformation on studies, reviewing (incl. ethical review, bias) and approving them.
  1. [MF] Not all studies are about proposals.
  1. [JMN] Support for universities to handle studies.
  1. [YS] Would be good to collect the work done within / related to TG5, even if TG5 itself doesn’t register the studies.
1. TG5 repo
  1. Matrix room, GitHub Reflector for TG5
  1. Yulia will start these. (done)

