# Node.js Foundation Community Committee Meeting 2017-06-22
 
## Links

* **Video Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gwSWLXD2nLw 
* **GitHub Issue**: [community-committee#80](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/80)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Pd6e40n1wPEuRBknDJUFwlf9XDhWI94jCgMEvTfVS4/
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J14T5lXuFWsaTqfkpmPruAZ4E-WsVe2V5TAaKwDjHN0/


## Present
 
 
* Bryan Hughes @nebrius (CommComm)
* Jenn Turner @renrutnnej (observer)
* Olivia Hugger @pup (observer)
* Richard Littauer @RichardLitt (observer)
* Tracy Hinds @hackygolucky (CommComm)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (observer)
 
## Agenda
 
Extracted from **cc-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.
 
### nodejs/community-committee
 
* Adding Jenn and Tierney as members [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/pull/77)
* Move Node Together Repo as an org under CommComm [#63](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/63)
* Request to move nodejs/education under CommComm [#46](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/46)
* Adding folks as members [#38](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/38)
 
## Minutes
 
### Adding Jenn and Tierney as members [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/pull/77)
 
Bryan Hughes: Neither of the volunteers are members, and this group has had previous discussions of what the membership process could look like, so I’m hoping to have discussion about what membership requirements should be and also finalizing the process.  
Tracy Hinds: I’m not wanting to delay process for these two at all. We’ve discussed a simple path: observe meetings for 3 months, meet the minimum participation goal, and then they’ll get to join as member. How it worked with our first round of members was whoever volunteered, basically got added. After that we discussed a process, but never finalized it, so let’s PR a process, and add this second round as members.  
Michael Dawson: In other working groups, whoever showed up gets joined (as a member) and once the groups were more formalized, a membership process was established.  
Tracy: Let’s not impede getting the second group added.  
Bryan: Let’s add the second round but also get our membership process documented for the future. What do the volunteers think?  Jenn Turner: Don’t have a preference either way. Let’s stick to whatever process we decide.  
Bryan: Let’s add this second round of membership including Jenn, Tierney, Olivia Hugger, and potentially Richard Littauer, if he’s interested, and then try and get a basic process in place for the next round.
Richard Littauer: Accepts membership offer.  
Tracy: Let’s make sure to add others who have been active/contributing who might not be here for this meeting.   
Olivia: Seconded  
Tracy: Michael are you interested?  
Michael: Cites overlap of being on the TSC.  
Bryan: Cites his overlap of being on the TSC.  
Michael: Accepts membership offer.  
 
Action items:   
Bryan will first look into active participation from non-members, and second reach out to a second round of folks for membership.  
 
### Move Node Together Repo as an org under CommComm [#63](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/63)
 
Tracy: I need to go back and add some thoughts to the issue. The Node.js Foundation Board had no problem with moving NodeTogether under CommComm if I recall, however, they expressed caution and asked us to have Legal to look at student application. They clarified that the Board doesn’t feel like the transition requires a board resolution.  
Bryan: So, to clarify, we can bring NodeTogether in now and then have Legal look at it?  
Tracy: That’s up to Rachel White’s discretion if she finds something. When a project has a GitHub repository under Node.js, the Legal team is supposed to be deferred to. So the practices that NodeTogether has, have to align with legal. But otherwise, there are no blockers to making this move.  
Bryan: I will bring in NodeTogether now, and also make a request to the Board for Legal to take a look at the application documents.  
Tracy: Confirmed.  
Bryan: Will also follow up with moving NodeTogether over/ GitHub permissions, etc.  
Tracy: After the transition, there will be issues around the Slack platform, who has admin access – but that issue is not pertinent until NodeTogether comes under the project.  
Bryan: Removes agenda label from issue.  
 
Action items:  
Bryan will follow up with moving NodeTogether/exploring permissions under CommComm. Bryan will also request for the board to have legal look at the application documents.  
 
### Request to move nodejs/education under CommComm [#46](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/46)
 
Bryan: I think we’re ready to do this, we just need to implement it.  
Tracy: Confirms, I think we need to add a note in the README.  
Bryan: We just need to add in both places (on CommComm’s repo and Education’s as well).  
Bryan: Also, as a heads up, I’ve been working with the Evangelism working group, and they most likely are going to come under CommComm, but right now we’re working with TSC to figure out the transfer.  
Bryan: Removes agenda label from issue.  
 
Action items:   
Tracy will submit a PR to CommComm and Education repos to add notes to both READMEs.  
 
### Adding folks as members [#38](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/38)
 
Bryan: What should the process actually look like?  
Tracy: We’ve talked about this a number of times, it just needs to be PR’d.  
Bryan: Removes agenda label from issue.  
 
### Minutes timeliness
 
Olivia: Expresses concerns with the timeliness of minutes being posted publicly.  
Bryan: There’s a grey area around the requirements since there hasn’t been an official person to do it, but we should be faster about it. We should submit the PR right after the meeting is done.  
Jenn: Confirms can do it.  
Tracy: Mentions she has submitted the notes before but didn’t communicate about it.  
 
### Create travel fund for CommComm
 
Tracy: I want to visit the idea of creating a travel fund for CommComm because our scope is separate from the TSC travel fund. The TSC is going to be making an additional request for their fund for the rest of the year, and I want to know if CommComm will need funds for the Collaborator Summit? It would be vital to have folks there. We can make the request to the board, we just have to decide to do that.  
Bryan: The TSC has a travel fund to use to send people to Node events. It’s given out by the board. Typically the fund is used for travel expenses for folks who don’t work for a member company. We want to get as many people to events as possible. Because we sit beside the TSC instead of beneath, their fund doesn’t apply to us, so we should probably have our own.  
Michael: Why not?  
Tracy: We should have CommComm members at the most valuable contributor meeting of the year. It’s also not just for Node.js Interactive, it’s for relevant events like TC-39, so that could open up opportunities for CommComm.  
Olivia: Makes sense, I wouldn’t be able to attend without support.  
Tracy: If there are no objections, I’ll put together and PR the request for a CommComm fund so Ashley Williams and William Kapke can make the request at the next Node.js Foundation Board meeting.  
Bryan: Do we need to have a discussion around amounts? We have less folks than the TSC but with Evangelism coming under us, travel funds will be necessary. Collaborator summits are important, I encourage everyone to attend.  
Olivia: When is the next collab summit, is it at Node.js Interactive North America?  
Tracy: It’s in Vancouver, BC, in October.  
Olivia: We’ll need to factor cost from Europe  
Tracy: I have a rubric used before for community conferences I’ve run that generally works. Also it includes the cost of the hotels, because we don’t want anyone to have to stay at hostel.  
Richard: Some of us stay with friends  
Tracy: People are very reasonable when it comes to these requests too, in my experience. When I files the PR, it will include the pricing rubric.  
Bryan: We want to PR the existing the documents for the TSC/what they used, correct?  
Tracy: Yeah I think so.  
Bryan: So, the TSC is currently discussing improving the process. Because of timing, I think we should bring in those docs as is to get the process started. 
 
## Q/A
 
Mark Hinkle: How many people do you think you’ll need to fund for travel?  
 
Tracy: For past Node.js Interactive events, we took the total attendance and made calculations, it was a little arbitrary and we still came in under the budget. We’ll want to look at how many members of Evangelism are active, and as far as I know, we won’t be taking on many more large volumes of group projects.  
Bryan: We’ll probably want a little headroom for new people who might come on, maybe 30%?  
Tracy: I will make that clear on the calculations, so the board can clarify how much they want to cover.  
 
Bryan: I also had a question on how things get added to the agenda. If there’s anything people want discussed they just need to add the agenda label to an issue, or if they don’t have permission to do so, to tag someone who does have permission and they’ll be able to add it.  
 
## Next Meeting
 
Node.js Foundation calendar: <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=nodejs.org_nr77ama8p7d7f9ajrpnu506c98%40group.calendar.google.com>
 
*Next meeting: 2017-07-06 20:30 UTC (Thursday 1:30pm US Pacific).*
