# Node.js Foundation Community Committee Meeting 2017-08-03

## Links

* **GitHub Issue**: [community-committee#98](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/98)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vvl8VMehZXlgXt3iFf_xQYcXWkaTOfBgVwT9FWTKk1U
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1utEp06Pyk0uwJn77TWdxIpwuoiFRjHvKinSdbY1BwNk
* _Video Recording_:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32DsVd_57Lc

## Present

* Bryan Hughes @nebrius (CommComm)
* Gregor Martynus @gr2m (CommComm)
* Joe Sepi @joesepi (observer)
* Olivia Hugger @pup (CommComm)
* Rachel White @rachelnicole (CommComm)
* Richard Littauer @RichardLitt (CommComm)
* Tierney Cyren @bnb (CommComm)
* Tracy Hinds @hackygolucky (CommComm)
* William Kapke @williamkapke (CommComm)
* Frederic Hemberger @fhemberger (observer)
* Oz Haven @therebelrobot (observer)

## Agenda

Extracted from **cc-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Invite Interested Website WG members to Next CommComm meeting [#95](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/95)
* Create an email alias for CommComm? [#89](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/89)
* Move Node Together Repo as an org under CommComm [#63](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/63)


## Minutes

### Invite Interested Website WG members to Next CommComm meeting [#95](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/95)
* Initial explanation of the history up to now about the impending Node.js website redesign.
  * Mikeal was in contact with Leo, who was tasked to work on the nodejs.org website design ~1 year ago
  * Leo was blocked on being able to work on this for quite some time, but can now work on this
  * The Website WG also has been blocked on doing work, like major updates to certain pages, because there was a new design coming at some point in the future.
* Discussion around next steps
  * Create issue in nodejs/nodejs.org to kick off a meeting with the involved parties (Leo, CommComm, Website WG, and Foundation)

Action item: 
* Create issue in the Website WG meeting up a follow up meeting with the Node.js Website WG, CommComm, and others who are interested in participating.

### Create an email alias for CommComm? [#89](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/89)
* Ask from Brian: Members please share email addresses to be added to this
* Additionally, Olivia: These email addresses are a good way to knock out two issues and resolve [#90](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/90)
* More discussion around this topic generally, and the process and implementation of this. 

Action items:
* Communitty Committee members: Add email addresses to https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/89
* Add those email addresses to the README.md

### Move Node Together Repo as an org under CommComm 
[#63](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/63)
* Ashley Williams currently has the NodeTogether repo(s) under her account.
* Next steps are for Ashley to add DEPRECATED to her repos, and for the CommComm to clone the repo(s).
* There's a pretty overwhelming response from conferences that want to include NodeTogether as events at their events.
* The move will be a copy and paste, losing commit history. We will be linking back to Ashley's repo and thanking her for her extensive work on it.
* We can probably get around losing commit history by cloning locally, changing the repo's origin, and pushing up.
* Discussion around the domain name, and moving it to the Node.js Foundation - this needs to be done to ensure the domain asset is under the Foundation ownership. This will also be the only associated expense, other than travel and people-related expenses.
* Jeremiah brought up the possibility of forking the original repos and then requesting that GitHub un-fork it.

Action items: 
* Create repos/fork old repo
* Move domain name from Ashley to Foundation

## Q/A
- None

## Next Meeting

Node.js Foundation calendar: <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=nodejs.org_nr77ama8p7d7f9ajrpnu506c98%40group.calendar.google.com>

*Next meeting: 2017-08-17 20:30 UTC (Thursday 1:30pm US Pacific).*

