# Node.js Foundation Community Committee Meeting 2017-06-08

## Links

* **GitHub Issue**: [community-committee#62](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/62)
* **Video Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r5gL9sL3vyM
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Pd6e40n1wPEuRBknDJUFwlf9XDhWI94jCgMEvTfVS4/
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J14T5lXuFWsaTqfkpmPruAZ4E-WsVe2V5TAaKwDjHN0/

## Present
* Bryan Hughes @nebrius (CommComm)
* Tracy Hinds @hackygolucky (CommComm)
* Tierney Cyren @bnb (observer)
* Richard Littauer @RichardLitt (observer)
* Myles Borins @MylesBorins (CommComm)
* Micheal Dawson @mhdawson (observer, TSC)

## Agenda

Extracted from **cc-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Create official secretary position [#64](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/64)
* Move Node Together Repo as an org under CommComm [#63](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/63)
* Request to move nodejs/education under CommComm [#46](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/46)
* Adding folks as members [#38](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/38)
* Moderation shortage [#33](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/33)

### nodejs/nodejs-collection

* Refreshing Node.js Collection Review Process and Gathering Technical Editors [#1](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-collection/issues/1)

## Minutes

### Create official secretary position [#64](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/64)

Jenn and Tierney have both offered help in this! Would they share this role, if so, how is the work split? Cool suggestion was a minutes team. Decision: Resolved to share it. Rotating schedule to keep it simple and not too much of a burden. No formal role.

To do: check in in two months to see how this is doing without a formal role in place.

### Move Node Together Repo as an org under CommComm [#63](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/63)

Hey all, as far as I can recall, the Board confirmed at the last meeting that they don't need a resolution for this on their end, but that Director @ashleygwilliams had brought up we should have legal review the guidelines documented for accepting students into each class to ensure we(NodeTogether) are doing everything in an acceptable fashion.

To do:
So, legal and the NodeTogether slack being moderated are the two to-dos that need to be approved by the NodeTogether team. Rachel + team need to be okay with some sort of admin access because the Slack is closed. Do the CoC line up?

### Request to move nodejs/education under CommComm [#46](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/46)

Blocked on waiting for TSC approval.


### Adding folks as members [#38](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/38)
Issue #69 addresses creating the Contributing Guide being created will finish this issue.

To do:
Look at the Evangelism working group(@bnb) for this contributing outside of technical content as a starting point. Look at prior meeting notes as well that sort of hashed this out.


### Moderation shortage [#33](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/33)
There are a number of issues open here that we need to look at the overarching picture and maybe consolidate this in an issue to track these pieces. It’s almost necessary to project manage all of these moving pieces. TSC is also having discussions regarding this and potentially shared responsibility(makes sense!).

To do:
Break this into small pieces, find issues related, and track from there. Some of these issues exist in the TSC so pay attention to that too! Can we create a centralized doc that outlines the ultimate goal of Moderation and get all stakeholders’ buy-in.

Add commcomm Freenode IRC channel to README.


### Refreshing Node.js Collection Review Process and Gathering Technical Editors [#1](https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs-collection/issues/1)
New repo! What are next steps? Add folks! We need to enable people to come and become technical editors.

To do: We need to update CommComm’s repo to document teams and working groups that are under scope.

## Q/A

None.

## Next Meeting

Node.js Foundation calendar: <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=nodejs.org_nr77ama8p7d7f9ajrpnu506c98%40group.calendar.google.com>

*Next meeting: 2017-06-22 20:30 UTC (Thursday 1:30pm US Pacific).*
