## Meeting Details

- Monday February 16, 2015 at 19:00 UTC
- Original GitHub Issue (planning thread): https://github.com/nodejs/website/issues/146
- YouTube recording: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UKDKhFV61ZA
- In attendance (_in order of self-introduction_):
  * Trent Oswald [@therebelrobot](https://github.com/therebelrobot)
  * Jeremiah Senkpiel [@Fishrock123](https://github.com/Fishrock123)
  * Mikeal Rogers [@mikeal](https://github.com/mikeal)


### Updates

Docs tooling: General consensus to take over doc tooling, but doc files has to stay in the tree (io.js). There is a guy (Robert) that has worked on revamping the tooling, WG should try to reach out to him. Are there off the shelf doc tooling that can be used, or does this have to be custom built?

iojs/io.js : chris will open an issue for vendoring doc-tool + changing makefile: done: https://github.com/nodejs/io.js/issues/695

Trent - build tools and templating - added build info to template build process, looking into possible usage of Jade for templating

Robert - Doc Tools

Sean - watch PRs/issues, post-build merge: look into docs

Jeremiah - build, maybe guides, cross-browser CSS

## Meeting Agenda

* Merging translation PRs policy / Closing / Fixing policy #76

Language teams should create their own PRs and make their own policies for how they want to handle translation changes. One representative from each localization team could be given commit access in order to facilitate merging PRs for their languages without the intervention from WG members. WB’s policy for merging PRs should maybe not apply to localization PRs – unless they are controversial? Do not require translators to squash their commits, because this may be too hard for new users – also squashing commits trims down number of authors to one (this may be an issue).

* Website Visual Design Pass and Brand Treatment #181

There are two real brand treatments in the log thread. One of the treatment has a logo that may not work in all the different situation. Consensus on moving forward with the design treatment by vj, and see how we can get this into the website. It may be beneficial to have a designer on the website WG. This will be put to the TC for a rubber stamp of approval.

* Templating system: jade #195

There are some fundamental flaws in the HTML templating system. A templating language will be beneficial for the current and the new design of the website. The designer does not need know the templating language in, there are front end skilled members of the WG whom can take care of the design implementation. General consensus for adopting jade.

* Static blog page #68

Do not want to “dictate” the localization-teams on where they should post their translated blog posts. This should be up to each team where they think they will reach the most people. Also, the collection of io.js posts on Medium has some thousand of followers. Markdown version of the posts will be provided for translators.

There should not be too much process around the blog, and it should not be allowed to block a release. Further discussion on this topic will be moved back to the issue on GitHub, but the general consensus is to keep the blog as is.

* Social Media coordination and password sharing #82 #83 

The localization teams has found some interesting ways of sharing passwords from PGP encryption to plain text files. Sharing is not hard, maintaining the account is what is hard.

For social media coordination Sprout and Buffer are viable, but not perfect, options. Most of the tools is pay per seat. Discussions will continue on GitHub.

* More info on the build process end-to-end #84

There is something watching the repo for changes and builds the website. It is served through nginx (not sure if the config is sharable as it is now). Suggestion for geo IP redirect to translated versions, a better approach may be to read the user’s browser/system locale. First version will have a simple list before implementing an automated redirect. Also, some languages do not want an automatic redirect to their translation.

* IRC web interface #106 #107

WG is sticking with IRC. In the process of finding a better web interface (currently freenode); Slate by tj is considered as an alternative, Scrollback is another though it might be a tid bit too heavy. Requirements to a web interface; simple, clean, and friendly to newcomers while still maintaining what IRC is.  

* RSS feed for release/changelog #79

When the build/hosting done, this should be pretty easy. This issue could be moved to the build WG, but they probably don’t have too much time on their hands for this. GitHub has a RSS option for git tags (via GitHub releases), this does not include nightly builds.

* Add nightlies listed as "Unstable" #118

There has been some work on this already, a good approach may be to use client side / async to pull inn nightly versions on the front page.

# To Do

* Research doc tooling
* Jeremiah: research RSS feed for versions
* Mikeal: nightly builds on the frontpage
