## Meeting Details

- Monday March 2nd, 2015 at 19:00 UTC
- Original GitHub Issue (planning thread): https://github.com/nodejs/website/issues/240
- YouTube recording: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Wt1Lg79Uz8
- In attendance (_in order of self-introduction_):
  * Trent Oswald [@therebelrobot](https://github.com/therebelrobot)  
  * Jeremiah Senkpiel [@Fishrock123](https://github.com/Fishrock123)
  * Sean Ouimet [@snostorm](https://github.com/snostorm)

### Updates on Previous Meeting Agenda

* Merging translation PRs policy / Closing / Fixing policy #76
* Website Visual Design Pass and Brand Treatment #181
* Templating system: jade #195 
* Static Blog page #68
* Social Media coordination and password sharing #82 #83 
* More info on the build process end-to-end #84 
* IRC web interface #106 #107 
* RSS feed for realease/changelog #79
* Nightlies listed as "Unstable" #118 


### This Week Agenda

* #232 - Adding Contribution Guidelines (added by @snostorm)

Want to keep contributions open, not too strict.

* #203 - Adding new members to website working group (added by @therebelrobot)

@bnb and @vjk2005 up for consideration. Discussion will continue in the issue on Github. WG want to start by adding new people as collaborators, before consider them for a WG membership.

* #246 - Remove/flag stale i18n articles (added by @snostorm)

Remove untranslated content from the repo before starting to link to the translated versions of the website. Keep placeholders for languages that has started translation.

* #153 - translation "policy" (loose translation, etc.) (added by @snostorm)

Danish localization team brought up this issue. Should they translate the technical terms, or keep them in English? Whom is the target audience? If the audience has an understanding of the English terminology then it should be up to the translation team to decide. WG don’t want to restrict teams to a direct translation as long as the translation conveys the same content.

* #136 - subtrees / how do sub-groups publish (added by @snostorm)

Norwegian team will be used as an experiment for implementation subtrees into the iojs/website repo. We will point the content/no directory to the iojs/iojs-no website branch. Pull-requests and changes will have to go to the localized repo’s website branch in order to avoid conflicts. This will need to be documented, and training may be required in order to get this working. Hopefully this will end up making things cleaner for the localization teams.

* #254 - SSL all things (as relating to #136 above) (added by @snostorm)

<all-the-things.gif>

The WG is here to aid their (localization groups) workflow. WG should be working to providing reasons for the localization teams to use the iojs.org website and not make their own, duplicated, processes and workflows.

Provide an option for localization teams to redirect their custom local domains to the iojs.org website. 

* #181 - Website Design Pass and possible dedicated lead for build (added by @snostorm)

Do a full design pass. Use what we have and iterate over it. Adapt to the current design of the website. Issue using markdown for more complicated stuff such as version-stuff. Suggest to move to an html-markdown hybrid for the content to be translated.

* #195 - use jade templates (added by @Fishrock123)

Avoid adding additional tech, our current stack should do what we need.
