# Node.js Foundation Modules Team Meeting 2018-11-21

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NvJgv0-rm1A
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/226
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f9orlGCs0q6nLw6qtUpS3-GhdKcuxfYw9uc8Abfk-OA/edit

## Present

- Geoffrey Booth (@GeoffreyBooth)
- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Guy Bedford (@guybedford)
- Michael Zasso (@targos)
- Gus Caplan (@devsnek)
- Rob Palmer (@robpalme)
- Saleh Abdel Motaal (@SMotaal)
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
- Jeremiah Senkpiel (@fishrock123)
- Jan Krems (@jkrems)
- Brad Farias (@bmeck)

## Agenda

Extracted from **modules-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Approving PRs (7 minute timebox)

* governance: be explicit about meetings new members can join [#218](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/218)
2 minute timebox
Asking for LTGMs
No objections, landed

* esm resolver spec and implementation refinements [#12](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/12)
  - 5 minute timebox
A number of improvements to error handling
Goal is to make the spec and implementation evolve together.
Asking for LGTMs
No objections, landed

### Update on Progress (3 minute timebox)

* Surveys: Members formally taking ownership (leadership) is the next step [#209](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/209)
  - 3 minute timebox
Geoffrey: Could use a survey to help settle UX questions especially in Phase 2
Myles will connect us with NPM survey

### Discussion (45 Minute Timebox)

* Thinking about deadlines [#123](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/123)
  - 5 minute timebox

Myles: we should start to think about timelines for phases 2 and 3.
Bradley: potentially move Phase 2-1 into 3
Saleh: objects to moving Phase 2-1 into 3
Myles: would love to see Phase 2 finished before Dec 31, big Node 12 milestone in April
Jeremiah: need time for Node team to review, so needs to be before April
Guy: how much time before?

* When should we drop the moratorium? [#225](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/225)
  - 10 minute timebox
Myles: wants to upstream as soon as possible, especially to remove/change things that we know will change in the new implementation
Myles: would people object to upstreaming minimal kernel as it is now? Guy objects
Saleh: wants loaders in
Guy is for upstreaming under certain conditions
Geoffrey: consider the PR aspects, what would we tell users when/if we upstream?
Bradley: doesn’t feel comfortable keeping --loader if we upstream
Guy: could find ways of packaging this, like upstream phases 2 and 3 separately
Myles: what about specifically upstreaming Guy’s PR? No objections

* keeping ecmascript-modules up to date [#197](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/197)
  - 5 minute timebox
Myles: Anyone have any issues with current process that involves opening a PR to trigger a CI build, and then Myles rebases? No objections
Anyone have time helping to automate this? Myles and Michael and Guy offer; Gus: also @ryzokuken from last call offered
Myles: now have a master branch kept current with upstream, “lkgr” is last known good release kept current

* re-enable issues tab on ecmascript-modules [#212](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/212)
  - 5 minute timebox
Gus: The repo is an implementation where code things are happening, when issues pop up they should be with the code. I’ve seen issues opened on other repos, those seem like poor places to track that.
Myles: Consensus to enable issues but move issues that are off-scope to other repos? No objections, issues re-enabled.

* Resolution Proposal [#228](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/228)
20 minute timebox
Geoffrey gave overview of proposal
Rob: Dual-mode packages: import(“lodash”) and require(“lodash”) *will* return separate instances, assuming “lodash” is a dual-mode package.
Bradley: top concern when he evaluates all proposals now is the potential for separate import specifiers to return different modules for the same specifier, e.g. imported as ESM or CJS, and this proposal addresses that as far as we can tell.
Myles asked for executive summary to be added, Geoffrey agreed to work on that
Rob asked if the “searching up the path for a package.json” logic would happen for relative paths as well as absolute URLs, Guy and Bradley and Geoffrey discussed and agreed that it would, Geoffrey will update text to make that clear.
Geoffrey to Myles: way forward on this and package exports proposals? Vote in next meeting?
Myles and Guy suggest wrapping this into Guy’s resolution spec PR, and approving that PR would implicitly approve the proposals that went into making it, and would clear the way for implementation.

