# Node.js Foundation Modules Team Meeting 2018-08-15

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YiXrnHu8BSI
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/167
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/11SQ4Ib5jdyusHPJfGG_aJR2lsTAX1oAiiGklL2EHxhw/edit

## Present

- @devsnek (Gus Caplan)
- @mduleone (Matt DuLeone)
- @giltayar (Gil Tayar)
- @GeoffreyBooth (Geoffrey Booth)
- @guybedford (Guy Bedford)
- @MylesBorins (Myles Borins)
- @LJHarb (Jordan Harband)
- @zenparsing (Kevin Smith)
- @jdalton (John-David Dalton)
- @jkrems (Jan Krems) 
- @inidaname (Hassan Sani)
- @fishrock123 (Jeremiah Senkpiel)
- @SMotaal (Saleh Abdel Motaal)

## Agenda

Extracted from **modules-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### approving PRs (2 minute timebox)

* Nominate @SMotaal as an active member [#162](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/162)
* No quorum to nominate...

### Update on Progress (4 minute timebox)

* Create Terminology.md [#158](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/158)
  - 2 minute timebox
  * Saleh is not in the meeting, so we will move to next meeting

* Developer Survey [#85](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/85)
  - 2 minute timebox
  * the person responsible is not in the meeting, so we will move to next meeting

### Discussion (50 minute timebox)

* Thinking about deadlines [#123](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/123)
  - 5 minute Timebox
  * Myles: The previous sentiment that we do not want deadlines just so that there will be deadlines. We need to reach consensus without the pressure of deadlines. With that being said, we have been on this for a while, and yet do not have any insight on when we may have something to release without a flag. There are concern from the steering committee that we need to ship. Large organizations want the Node project to ship something so that they will have guidance on how it will work. I believe we should have a goal of shipping without a flag before Node 12, which is about 14 months, and maybe backport it if possible. Anybody has any ideas on this.
  * Geoffrey: I don’t have a specific suggestion.
  * Saleh: checkpoints, like having a prototype, or having the terminology document. A structural flow of how the checkpoints interdependent, more than the actual dates.
* Jan: I agree with the checkpoints. For me personally, it’s not the dates, but any way of expressing progress would be good. A list of decisions we can make, so that we can see that there is progress.

* Managing fork and agreed upon minimal kernel [#166](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/166)
  - 10 minute timebox
* Myles: this goes well with the next agenda meeting. The decision last meeting was to strip apart the current implementation. Coming to a consensus around what a minimal implementation is that is inclusive to all future implementations. And then create PRs that add to that. There was a discussion on that: fork? Branch? And the other discussion would be what would be part of this. Perhaps milestones around that minimal implementation and additions to it.
  * Gus: I want to keep it as close as possible to other core development. There are a lot of concerns when developing other parts of node, so we need to communicate the changes. So I don’t want it as another repo, ideally, but at least communicate the things outside of ourselves. 
  * Myles: the http/2 implementation was a fork, that was currently rebased. And maybe we should explore that.
  * Geoffrey: I’m OK with that. If it would have been my project, I would take the current implementation, move that out to a PR against the core, and then the minimal implementation would be another PR.
  * Myles: removing things from master is a non-starter, and it would be a huge disruption to the ecosystem.
  * Geoffrey: why?
  * Myles: we need to reach consensus, and we can’t create lots of PRs and changes to master, as it will create lots of noise.
  * Saleh: whenever I saw the module wrap I thought it could be a native module. If we create a native module that is a separate implementation. If this module would have the same hooks, then we could also port it to other stuff like Electron. We could stay as close to module wrap or as far away as we need. I prefer being close to module wrap.
  * jdalton: a repo within the org is fine. We can create multiple branches within it to scope each discussion. That’s what we did with worker, and doing it with REPL.
  * Kevin: I also like the fork idea. We need to figure out who’s in charge of rebasing upstream.
  * Jan: to the idea of making it into a library that we can install into the existing node, because then people can use it and try it out without building a fork. Huge advantage, but the problem is that it works for the regular import, tricky for dynamic import, and almost impossible for import.meta. We need changes to the v8 api to make this possible.
  * Myles: how can we improve that?
  * Jan: if we fork, to try out, people will need to build, unless we do nightly.
  * Myles: the build people can create nightlies from the fork.
  * Jan: yes, but there is a reason why people don’t try out nightly builds. Getting nightly builds will address some of the pain. If we want is as a native module, we need to ???.
  * Gus: for the idea of external module, there are things we need to do ???. It would be really cool to do, but it’s not worth pursuing at this moment.
  * Saleh: I see this as an opportunity to house clean. When we write isolated modules, we tend to uncover tight couplings that are hidden because it’s all in one repo. Yes, there will be technical challenges, I think it’s high time to clean up things that have happened over the implementations. There are certain things that might be closed. I hope that people buy into the idea of the native module.
  * Myles: we can kick off an issue for that, and given that forking seems like the most buyin, we can do that in the fork repo.
  * Myles: let’s continue on the discussion of what will be in the minimal implementation. First Gil’s [reading Gil’s issue]
  * Gil: it’s basically Myles’ option, but including the regular node module resolution.
  * Myles: [reading Myles’ issue]. Do people have any thoughts on this?
  * Jan: it would be important what we are trying to prove or try out. For me, a foundation that everyone can agree on, and then start ??? For me, createRequireFunction is ??? * Myles: ??? The idea with createRequireFunction. Import does not have transparent interop, so we need some kind of basic thing to support interop.
  * Saleh: ??? I think anything that is node specific for the minimal implementation, might in most cases, ??? 
  * LJHarb: the hard part is deciding what ships. If the group decides this is important, then fine, but I feel that this is delaying the final implementation.
  * Myles: I’ll create the fork and we can iterate on it.

* ESM in .js files:
  - ESM in .js files proposals [#150](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/150)
   - [#160](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/160)
  - 10 minute timebox
  - Proposals for configuring parse goals of files in --experimental-modules
  * Myles: Can Geoff update us on this issue?
  * Geoffrey: at least for CoffeeScript (and others), they only support .js as output. So there needs some way to treat .js files as ESM. This issue is—should we enable this, and #160 is some suggestions on this.
  * Myles: are you implying that every folder with package.json will have a different resolution algorithm.
  * Geoffrey: yes. Not sure about resolution, but definitely mapping. All the others assume that determining a package boundary is what is in the PR that enables this. Then the rest of the issue is that the merged final proposal is that there is a new “mimes” field which maps extensions to mime types. This follows the browser method of thinking about it. The final proposal takes that as a starting point, and what some people also wanted was a way to define these through external files as well. So either an object, inline, or an array of strings that are an array of json files. If it starts with “null”, then we erase the default mappings, otherwise we start with the default node mappings. I was kind of hoping that this is something we want to sign on.
  * LJHarb: I like the concept. It’s generic and can be per-package. The only concern is that using mime types is confusing. The web does have mime types, but others don’t necessarily understand this. So my preference is mapping of extension to extensions. But I am all for the idea.
  * Myles: question: where do the list of available mimes come from? Is there a list of definitive mime types? Can you do application/typescript?
  * Geoffrey: you know the code better than I do. I assume given a mime type, it knows how to treat each file extension. This would be making that more explicit. Instead of saying “for .json do this”, it would say “for application/json do this”. And there would be a mapping. So for all file types that node supports, there would be mime types. And mime types that are not default, maybe the loaders will be able to support this.
  * Myles: I believe there is an abstraction that seems a bit ???. To me the mental model that makes more sense is the connection to the loader hooks. I would love to see how that would work and how it fleshes out.
  * Saleh: I love the declarative aspect of it. I’m against mime types outside of the browser, but I believe we should address the idea of declaring things in a certain folder. package.json makes sense to use as for this.
  * Jan: My problem with the proposal, for me it’s either everyone agrees with the defaults, or everybody adds the same two scaffolding lines everywhere. It feels like something that is opting into complexity and support problems.

* transparent-or-not interop [#90](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/90)
  - 10 minute timebox
  * Myles: one of the reason that we are talking about this. Benjamin?
  * Benjamin: listening to Geoffrey talking about CoffeeScript, makes me realize that generating new modules and ???. If it’s ESM, we don’t need anything, but if we want to enable using import declarations to import ESM, and for other stuff to get wrapped as ESM modules, then we can just import mymodule.coffee. But if we need import.meta.require, then, I guess I believe there is a future where we don’t need to worry about file extensions and such.
  * LJHarb: browsers are definitely going to be using mime types to parse what you import. In browsers it’s either parsed as script or as a module.
  * Myles: But the file extension is usually how the server determines mime type.
  * Jan: I think it’s problematic to say that everything imported is only ESM. But for most practical purposes the browser has a whitelist of extensions that is allowed to be imported as ESM.
  * Jeremiah: I’m not OK that the only way to import is using “import”. Making it so that if we import CJS, it would import CJS and wrap it with an ESM.
  * Benjamin: yes, CJS is the exception because it uses the same .js extension as ESM should. But the others, like TypeScript, there is less of a question there and we just need to figure out how to configure this.
  * Jan: the problem with enabling importing things like html is that this will be a future backward compatible problem, because we will not in core be able to use that file extension in the future. And it can be really confusing if half of the ecosystem is using one file extension and another is using another file extension for the same purpose.

  [Oops. Meeting got cut off.]

