# Node.js Foundation Modules Team Meeting 2018-05-23

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J329JT8FRRg
* **GitHub Issue**:  https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/117
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hVk9omD3soHU5Dg4RjP92zXuf6DRzOpWKJRoIK2AVyo/edit

## Present

- Benjamin Gruenbaum (@benjamingr)
- Bradley Farias (@bmeck)
- Geoffrey Booth (@GeoffreyBooth)
- Gus Caplan (@devsnek)
- Guy Bedford (@guybedford)
- Jan Krems (@jkrems)
- John-David Dalton (@jdalton)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Hassan Sani (@inidaname) 
- Matt DuLeone (@mduleone)
- Michael Zasso (@targos)
- Myles Borins (@mylesborins)
- Rob Palmer (@robpalme)
- Saleh Abdel Motaal (@smotaal)
- Wassim Chegham (@manekinekko)
- Wesley Wigham (@weswigham)
- Torgny Bjers (@tbjers)

## Agenda

Extracted from **modules-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Approving PRs (2 minute timebox)

* Move Geoffrey Booth to member. [#89](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/89)
 - no objections
* Add Kevin Smith as an observer. [#88](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/88)
  - no objections
### Discussion (55 minute timebox)

* Initiative: Terminology / Historical Decisions documents [#119](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/119)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - saleh will kick off a document

* Developer Survey [#85](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/85)
  - 5 minute timebox

  - guy: what objectives do we have in mind?
  - jdd: node foundation or js foundation could promote
  - brad: it is going to be very hard to avoid bias
  - brad: how do we set proper expectations
  - myles: avoid setting expectations by not making leading questions
  - Hassan: MO Developer Survey will provide us a platform to elaborate more on how user will really work with Modules.

* Topics to discuss with TC39 [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/84)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - jdd: builtins?
  - brad: there is a new proposal going on that might help with this

* Feature: Transparent interoperability for ESM importing CommonJS [#100](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/100) and transparent-or-not interop [#90](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/90)
  - 15 minute timebox
  - This is a really big issue to discuss
  - geoff: maybe we should split it up
  - myles: objections, there is a plethora of issues already open and this is really hard to keep track of
  - saleh: having everything as an issue and multiple discussion under multiple features is confusing (recommend using Milestones or creating separate repo like nodejs/modules-features as long as the topics unfold in a manageable manner)
  - guy: so many implications of implementation decisions. Workflows vs bundlers vs npmâ€¦ all of this needs to be kept in mind. Fleshing out those stories for coherent features can make sense. Risk of creating island and forcing vision
  - geoff: perhaps we can avoid talking about implementation of a feature.
  - myles: the current pace is just not tenable to keep up with
  - ongoing discussion about how to define transparent interop
  - brad + rob to work on


