# Node.js Foundation Modules Team Meeting 2018-07-18

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_k63DkTJpUI
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/154
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zruFPTN9dIpvSEkStxo4fkPenXTdhsLEVkcmoKlVmOA/edit

## Present

- Gus Caplan (@devsnek)
- Jan Krems (@jkrems)
- Ben Newman (@benjamn) (took notes below)
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
- Matt DuLeone (@mduleone)
- Bradley Farias (@bmeck)
- Guy Bedford
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Geoffrey Booth
- Jeremiah Senkpiel
- Kevin Smith
- Geoffrey Booth (@GeoffreyBooth)
- Saleh Abdel Motaal (@SMotaal)

## Agenda

Extracted from **modules-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Update on Progress (15 minute Timebox)

* Pull request opened for import.meta.require on core [#130](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/130)
  - 3 minute timebox
  - Jordan: philosophical objection to implementing something we haven’t come to consensus on yet
* Thinking about deadlines [#123](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/123)
  - 3 minute timebox
  - Jordan: this working group wasn’t convened for expediency, so we should make sure we’re shipping the right thing above all else
  - Bradley: there’s been a thought going around about starting a very minimal implementation that we can all agree on, so that we can decide about future features one at a time (more so than now)
* Initiative: Terminology / Historical Decisions documents [#119](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/119)
  - 3 minute timebox
  - Jan: Myles said probably no progress this week, but next week he may have more time
  - Guy: let’s get an update on that from Myles next week then
* Developer Survey [#85](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/85)
  - 3 minute timebox
  - Guy: goal should be to create agenda items to discuss in these meetings, and also iterate on between meetings
  - Michael Dawson: a GitHub issue would make it easier for folks to add ideas asynchronously
  - Bradley: survey shouldn’t just be about user expectations, since we can violate those in service of meeting user needs
* Features List Adjustments #156
  - 3 minute timebox
  - Guy: removing duplicates and flagging features that weren’t on the README page
    - Unfortunately don’t have a quorum to merge PRs

### Discussion

*  Package-Name-Maps a proposal for bare imports in browsers [#51](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/51)
  - 5 Minute Timebox
  - Jordan: summarizing:
    - Static file that declaratively tells the browser how to resolve bare specifiers to final URLs
    - Has nested structure (scopes) to support deep imports from packages
    - Should be easy to create to adapt Node code to browsers
    - Question: Should Node provide support for optional package name maps, too?
  - Bradley:
    - Folks are making assumptions about the limits of package name maps without fully investigating the feature set
    - For example, you *can* resolve directories and missing file extensions
  - Michael Dawson:
    - How does this fit into overall priorities? Can we think about this later on?
  - Geoffrey Booth:
    - I’m trying to avoid code that behaves differently in Node and browsers, so package name maps are a compatibility concern for me
    - As packages add maps, they could cause breaking changes in resolution, e.g. for code doing deep imports from those packages
    - Lots of value in aligning with the browser on this, though
  - Bradley: I don’t think this is the same level of compatibility concern
    - Always going to be some mismatch between how Node and browsers work, so we should be considering the subset of functionality that works the same in both
    - Bigger compatibility problems with caching, import.meta.url, importing JSON, HTML modules
    - Node is not a subset of the web
    - Using tools to generate package name maps solves some of the problems here
  - Guy:
    - Package name maps can only map bare specifiers, so ./ specifiers aren’t addressed by the proposal
  - Bradley:
    - Shouldn’t make Node dependent on what browsers do here
    - Other approaches to solve the same problems, such as loader hooks
  - Michael Dawson:
    - Node probably would not want to allow mapping bare specifiers to external URLs
    - Undermines Node’s security model, though it works in browsers
  - Guy: Relative import specifiers are one of the big unresolved problems
  - Bradley: that’s something the designers of package name maps should think about
  - Michael Dawson:
    - Maybe we should be providing input to the design of package name maps rather than discussing whether to implement them as-is
  - Guy:
    - If anybody believes there is something we should prioritize on this front please raise, otherwise might be left until we figure out some of the other issues.
* Have presentation on loaders. [#135](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/135)
  - 20 Minute Timebox
  - Purpose: get folks to stop thinking of loaders as an amorphous API that allows anything
    - Instead, talk about what loaders actually do, and must be able to do
  - Discussion:
    - MD: Are facades not able to change / add things to the module?
    - BF: when we say code is ESM, we don’t touch it, we just load it directly
    - MD: Why would we do otherwise?
    - BF: Changing the ordering of imports would be an example of not directly importing an ESM module
    - BF: We’re following the spec as long as resolution returns an ESM module record
  - Proposal:
    - Move loaders off the main thread for isolation and performance
    - Command line --loader option
    - Environment variables
    - Per-package loader hooks configured in package.json? (BF in favor)
    - Works in user-land currently, though difficult to keep rebasing it against Node master
    - See slides
  - Differences between this proposal and existing ideas
    - See slides
  - Issues
    - Caching is tricky, since it works so differently in the browser than other tools
      - Would prefer to remove caching from the proposal
    - Raw amount of time spent doing transformations is significant
      - Caching compilation results should therefore be easy/simple
      - Can’t solve this problem in this proposal, but should show it can be solved
* transparent-or-not interop [#90](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/90)
  - 20 Minute Timebox
  - Skipped this due to running out of time

Saleh Abdel Motaal on terminology document:

* Not much to say about terminology document progress
* Two documents
  - One document went “way overboard” (first draft)
  - Another took a different direction with input from other people
* Guy: can we add one of those documents as a link to the list of resources that we maintain?
* Saleh: yes, will create a markdown document in the repo
* Sounds good to everyone

