# Node.js Foundation Modules Team Meeting 2018-08-29

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u9P-nN-FDgA
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/172
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DhUZYo8Cw-CNZCnnsV8qVPA0WeK6SH2kt971Rt0DqR0/edit?usp=sharing

## Present
* Wesley Wigham (@weswigham)
* Daniel Rosenwasser (@DanielRosenwasser)
* Geoffrey Booth (@GeoffreyBooth)
* Bradley Farias (@bmeck)
* Guy Bedford (@guybedford)
* Gus Caplan (@devsnek)
* Saleh Abdel Motaal (@SMotaal)
* John-David Dalton (@jdalton)
* Kevin Smith (@zenparsing)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel (@fishrock123)
* Jordan Harband (@LJHarb)
* Rob Palmer (@robpalme)

## Agenda

Extracted from **modules-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### approving PRs (2 minute timebox)

* Nominate @SMotaal as an active member [#162](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/162)

### Update on Progress (5 minute timebox)

* Create Terminology.md [#158](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/158)
  - 2 minute timebox
* Developer Survey [#85](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/85) - proposal - https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/173
  - 2 minute timebox
  - Don't have any specifics in mind on what we want to know with this survey, but a systematic process could help us get started.
  - Someone who comes from this forum will already have information about the survey contents.
  - Don't want to write this survey in one person's frame of reference.
    - When you ask questions in a particular way, this can sway how people perceive the question and how they'll answer.
- next step: get 4-8 people involved in iterations for the survey

### ECMAScript Modules PRs (25 minute timebox)

Extracted from PRs against https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules prior to the meeting.

* import.meta.require [#1](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/1)

  * Brad: This fork is something we're putting PRs on, and we explicitly stated the fork might not be pleasant to use.
    * We're weighing on whether this fork is something that is "pretty and minimal" or which has more controversial features.
  * Geoffrey: Figured initial features would be the least controversial features, and yet this (CJS interop) is the first PR.
    * Do we really need this in the first iteration?
      * No, but it means that npm is unusable so it's not totally useful.
  * Jordan: What's the goal of the implementation? Is it a playground? Is the hard part the implementation? I think the hard stuff is agreeing on stuff, not the implementation.
    * Also, what does minimal mean? If it can't work with npm, is it minimal?
  * \[\[Someone else has to fill this in, we were having video driver and/or connection issues]]
  * Brad: Currently with this implementation, it seems like we're saying the web doesn't matter.

* remove file extension and directory resolving [#2](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/2)
* default extensions and directory resolving across package boundaries [#4](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/4)
  * There's a desire to treat bare names as packages.
  * Brad: this is being done in the same name as package name maps, and people are saying "this can be done with ahead-of-time tools".
  * Brad: I object to this, not just because the spec is so alpha, but you'd also have to convince me that they're worthwhile.
* remove ".json" default loading [#3](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/3)
  * Idea: you can still import from CJS with require, but not with ES modules
  * Geoffrey: I recalled that we'd add in importing JSON later on.
    * G: instead of removing things, do we need to rethink what we're even going for?

### Discussion (30 minute timebox)

* Browser / bundler compatibility [#170](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/170)
  * How much should we be tailoring the implementation to the needs of browsers and bundlers?
  * Brad: We've seen a miniature version of this feature in past meetings: different people prioritizing different things like existing tools, browsers, and new design space.
    * Stripping everything out is the most neutral view of the situation. We need to come to an agreement about what the level of support we care about is.
  * Geoffrey: we already came to an agreement on all of this when we came up with a prioritization list.
  * Saleh: if we try to turn these questions into something we can ask in the survey, it'd be easier to define the goals.
  * Kevin: there will be a lot of programs that *won't* care about programs that work in the browser; we should be considering programs that are written for the the intersection as well as the exclusion as first-class.
  * Brad: I want to explicitly state that I think that's a bad idea. Prioritizing one paradigm makes the design space easier. Have to ask how much value is added in this intersection when you consider how it impacts other targets? Choosing one won't lead to all scenarios being ideal, but choosing a prioritized set of paradigms will narrow down the design space, and we have a *very* large design space.
  * Guy: If you think about how bundlers work nowadays, they're all based on conventions set by Browserify. Node resolution, importing json, polyfilling process environment variables, etc. - all continued past Browserify. And that was all based on Node. So what we're doing here is setting a precedent for other tools.
  * Saleh: While it's good to keep those things in mind, people struggle based on the precedent based on Browserify.
  * Wesley: coming at the module design with the mindset that "what people've done with modules is wrong". If I can't continue to do the things 
  * Bradley: we can't just *do* what Webpack does, or what TypeScript does. We've discussed this for months. There are issues with how the spec is
  * Wesley: If the ecosystem is so divorced from the runtime, why are we starting with a different runtime entirely? The idea is we want to capture the existing userbase of Node.
    * Going with an intersection is probably the worst thing you can possibly do. I can see two stances: either make things as smooth as possible for Node, or prioritize compatibility with the browser. In either case, you're going to have friction, so the middle ground is going to cause frustration there.
* Brad: what if we can't provide the compatibility compilers have?
* \[\[Fill this in]]
* Jeremiah: the problem with modules the entire time is that we've been stuck in this middle ground.
* Wesley: existing module systems are present and have the goal of emulating modules systems in the ecosystem
* Managing fork and agreed upon minimal kernel [#166](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/166)
* Proposals for configuring parse goals of files in --experimental-modules [#160](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/pull/160)

