# Node.js Foundation Modules Team Meeting 2018-12-19

* **Recording**:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2i-dkaKklE
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/240
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kj6Ja4DM_x8Ehis-nahgttCFLMupsmWiZUhdf-WPl6U/edit

## Present

- Matt DuLeone (@mduleone)
- Wesley Wigham (@weswigham)
- Daniel Rosenwasser (@DanielRosenwasser)
- Guy Bedford (@guybedford)
- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Rob Palmer (@robpalme)
- Jan Krems (@jkrems)
- Gus Caplan (@devsnek)
- Bradley Farias (@bmeck)
- Hassan Sani (@inidaname)
- Geoffrey Booth (@GeoffreyBooth)
- John-David Dalton (@jdalton)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)

## Agenda

Extracted from **modules-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Discussion (55 minute timebox)

* Discussion: Organizing work [#230](https://github.com/nodejs/modules/issues/230)
  - 10 minute timebox
  - How we can organize & structure work
  - If we had some sort of page to say "who's working on what", that'd be great.
  - Looking to expand this outside of the existing groups
  - Myles: Node as a whole is a bit of a "do-ocracy" - it's just a matter of who does the work.
    - Not sure whether a designated responsibilities model is something that will work or scale.
    - What do you imagine the commitment of this document?
    - Geoffrey: we have something like that with the phase documents; but it's more of a statement of who's interested in what, and who to include on PRs and the like.
  - Kevin: Hard to get clarity on goals of various groups, and how we want to do work, but I don't have a specific recommendation.
  - Myles: Saleh has recommended a "project board"; could imagine a column for each topic
  - Rob: Focus groups can definitely lead to progress; really would love an index to point back to this work.
  - Geoffrey: can we get consensus on a project board?
    - No objections!
    - Myles: Great, who will do this?
      - Seems like both Geoffrey and Saleh

* Dynamic Modules Development in Node.js [#24894](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/24894)
  - 15 minute timebox
  - Refs:
    -  Update spec to throw on export * from dynamic modules [#11](https://github.com/nodejs/dynamic-modules/pull/11)
  - Bradley: we encountered something controversial about the behavior here, so this PR is a response to that.
    - so by removing this behavior, we are open to new design space
    - for clarity: nobody is saying "get rid of `export *`", just saying it isn't clear given that there's lack of consensus around it
    - we may come back and add this, but we don't want to lose momentum on this feature
  - Jordan: I've made similar objections in the past (i.e. "shipping without X is unacceptable"), but we're not even shipping this unflagged, so it's reasonable. Nobody should be relying on this experimental behavior.
  - Kevin: don't have to do a "line in the sand" approach
  - Bradley: blocking on a forward path because of a controversial feature is going to block whole proposals
    - we're refusing to let ourselves agree on anything because of absolutes
    - we should feel comfortable reverting features
    - also, we have deadlines here
  - JDD: this feature is kind of the point of transparent interop
    - if we believe this is something that adds complexity to the spec; it's going to be easier to work this in from the start than later on
    - we should go to TC39 first and get clarity on what we can do here
  - Myles: is this something that can wait 2 weeks?
    - JDD: saying "this work can be reverted" or making an explicit goal to support this somehow would be reasonable.
    - Myles: so what if we added this work to phase 2?
  - Bradley: I'm not okay with a commitment to not shipping without `export *` interop, but am okay with a heavy investigation here.
  - JDD: If we aren't shipping this feature, then we are shipping non-transparent interop.
  - Myles: Guy, do you have anything to add?
    - Guy: Nothing I can verbalize.
  - Myles: can we agree that we're adding exploring the `export *` space to our roadmap?
  - Guy: I've spent so much time on this. Nobody has wanted to contribute, nor has anyone provided a use-case for `export *` with CJS. I've worked with TC39 to rewrite parts of the spec for transparent interop. And then one person coming to this thread has jumped into the thread and derailed the process. This is incredibly demoralizing. If someone can provide *one* use-case, that would be minimally helpful here; along with someone willing to talk about the minimal details
  - JDD: have tons of users who would be impacted by this; took a survey of code in the wild.
    - Bradley: Actually didn't see that many occurrences; numbers don't entirely back that up. Many of those are occurrences are compiled code anyway.
  - Jeremiah: don't think compiled code is the audience for dynamic module interop.
  - Myles: Perhaps we'll have to revisit the idea of whether dynamic modules are the right solution.
    - JDD, what would be your feeling if this whole thing went to a vote?
      - JDD: I'd feel pretty lousy if the goal is transparent interop; I can do this today with a compiler.
  - Myles: how about we land the current work, and work on `export *`, revisiting the work itself if we're unable to reach a conclusion.
  - Guy: can we resolve this discussion before the next TC39 meeting?
  - Do we have any objections around merging in the current PR?
    - No objections!
  - Do we have any objections around merging in the documentation over the next week?
    - No objections!

* Specify import file specifier resolution proposal [#19](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/19)
  - ~~15 minute timebox~~
  - 2 minute update

\[Out of time]

Next meeting will be January 2nd.

\[Zoom issues - abrupt meeting cutoff 2 minutes early :D]

* \[Do not merge\] doc: Add pkg-exports proposal to resolve spec [#14](https://github.com/nodejs/ecmascript-modules/pull/14)
  - 15 minute timebox


