# 05/07 Meeting

## Participants

- Nicol√≤ Ribaudo
- Brian Ng
- Henry Zhu
- Sven Sauleau

## Notes

### Priorities

- Reviewing PRs
  - [x] Remove Stage 0-2 Presets from repo after REPL doesn't need it, deprecate on npm for the v7 versions
  - [ ] Review Logan's sourceType PR
  - [ ] babel-runtime meeting? Someone else can do it instead of Logan
  - [ ] Schedule a meeting about merging class proposal transform with Nicolo/Justin
- Website 7 switch
    - Moving docs to the website repo
    - old.babeljs.io pointing to the old-site branch
        - [x] rename to v6 instead of old

