Attendees:

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Divy Tolia (@designmoreweb)
* Bradley Farias (@bmeck)
* Andrey Pechkurov (@puzpuzpuz)
* Richard Lau (@richardlau)
* Chengzhong Wu (@legendecas)
* Beth Griggs (@BethGriggs)
* Bryan English (@bengl)
* Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
* Matheus Marchini (@mmarchini)
* Jean Burellier (@sheplu)


Google doc from first session: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oBC-l6lTSjKijhwXeJXgBcz4qNPDZlkj4DFKGgWNvV8/edit#heading=h.kfsrb8jml706


Proposed Agenda

* Logistics, schedule etc.
  * Matheus, not sure we need a WG, but generating issues would help people know when the
     meetings are, we likely need several meetings
  * Michael volunteer to add calendar/auto generation
  * Try to figure out time in a separate issue, 
  * Matheus may need to rotate time, how about use alternate to TSC meetings.
    * Michael that makes sense, no objections from any others 
    * Michael Bi-weekly or monthly
    * Bethany likely needs to be bi-weekly otherwise due to timezones it may be a long time
      between seeing people.
  * Michael, where should issues
  * Bethany likely need to generate meeting issues, likely new repo at least for auto meetings
    and minutes
  * Volunteer to create issue to request repo?

* Discuss initial priority work streams (1-2 I think)


* Continue discussion on Technical Evolution
  * Key technology trends and Node.js
  * Priority Themes/Strategic investment areas (roadmap, technical strategy or whatever?)
  * Priority of constituencies, hierarchy of priorities
  * what gets into core, 

* Talked about first doc we should contribute to core which would include

  * Intro
  * Mission
  * Values of the project, and priority list
    * Prefer X over y
  * Key technical areas for next 10 years
