# Diag WG Meeting - November 2016

* Date: 2016-11-09
* YouTube: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JGRpLZzWqss>
* Hangouts on Air: <https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/_/ytl/2rFWXYtntZeYKBCl3SBiNDtr3Le13lZ5CFdh7RvkXPs=?eid=100598160817214911030>

## Attendees

* Matt Loring (@matthewloring)
* Ali Sheikh (@ofrobots)
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Josh Gavant (@joshgav)
* Jason Ginchereau (@jasongin)

---

## Agenda

## Today

- TracingController

  - Trace event support for Node.js [[node#9304](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9304)]

- Inspector and Protocol

  - Bringing node-inspect into the fold (debugger for inspector protocol) [[diagnostics#67](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/67)]

- Other

  - Membership in the Diagnostics WG
  - Agenda for Diagnostics WG at Node Interactive and Collaboration Summit [[summit#30](https://github.com/nodejs/summit/issues/30)]

---

## Previous Meeting

- Inspector and Protocol

  - Debug already running process [[node#8464](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8464)]
  - Message text for `--inspect` [[node#7182](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7182)]

    - @joshgav to work on Node.js wiki page.

  - Profile for Node? [[diagnostics#52](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/52)]

    - Close issue until needed.

  - V8 inspector with other runtimes [see [node#7393](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/7393)]

    - Close issue until needed.

  - CLI debugger for new protocol [node#7266](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/7266)

    - Review Jan’s implementation.
    - Jan to prepare repo for inclusion in nodejs org.

- TracingController

  - Review Matt’s PR now.
  - PR to Node to come soon.

- async_hooks

  - Review PR. [[node#8531](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8531)]

---

## Minutes

### Trace event support for Node.js [[node#9304](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9304)]

PR open, only substantial change from previous branch is the TRACE_EVENT
header file. We pulled a copy of that into Node.js.

What is needed to get this landed?

Just waiting on LGTMs. Should ask Ben Noordhuis.

@mhdawson: Is the C function call tied to V8?

@mattloring: macros eventually call in to v8::Platform::AddTraceEvent

@trevnorris raised perf concerns for individual tracepoints; but we should focus
only on this core PR for now. As tracepoints are added, evaluate each one for
perf impact.

Future steps after/as this PR lands:
* Add tracepoints to Node core.
* JS interface.

These should be separate PRs and don’t block Matt’s core PR.

Example of adding trace points to async-wrap (in async-wrap-inl.h):
https://github.com/matthewloring/node/pull/2/commits/8262a46c5dea89b8ca2093ed46d91e599dca4b8e#diff-5b638e31a3b582076dad2a9fc4c24a30

@jasongin working on a JS interface, will share in a week or so.

---

### Bringing node-inspect into the fold (debugger for inspector protocol) [[diagnostics#67](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/67)]

@ofrobots suggested this become part of core since the existing debugger will be deprecated and we’ll need this in core.

What about using cyrus-and/chrome-remote-interface? No opinions.

When will V8 inspector be official?
* It’s official in V8 from 5.5.
* Old API/protocol will go away at some point, not yet finalized.

What else is needed in Node?
* CLI debugger?
* Signal to start listener like old debugger ([[node#7182](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7182)])
  * Could be we don’t switch till we remove the old debugger
* @joshgav to open a thread on what’s needed to go official with V8 inspector, starting with these items.

---

### Membership in the Diagnostics WG

Propose asking all members to confirm they’d like to stay.

---

### Agenda for Diagnostics WG at Node Interactive and Collaboration Summit [[summit#30](https://github.com/nodejs/summit/issues/30)]

* Discuss tracing and put some tracepoints in.
* Discuss context propagation (across async boundaries (?)).
* Items here: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/58

