# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics Working Group Meeting 2019-02-06 Minutes

## Attendees
  - Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
  - Stephen Belanger (@qard)
  - Peter Marton (@hekike)
  - Matheus
  - @ofrobots
  - GIreesh Punathil (@gireeshpunathil)
  - @mike-kaufman
  - @sethbrennith
  - @BridgeAR


## Links
- **This Meeting**:
  - Minutes:  https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2019-02-06.md
  - Notes:    https://docs.google.com/document/d/13zvCousvGvrPoSDJgAe0sfX9v-R28TCeZW8u8b_11H0/edit
  - You Tube: http://youtu.be/iDJVbEKNlxc
- **Previous Meeting**: 
  - Minutes:  n/a
  - Notes:    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gWtJYKbtBfiRRTvm7LDki9kOcYo5wsTSaHI667aa1wI/edit
  - You Tube: http://youtu.be/rTr6UF4YII0

## Agenda

Extracted from **diag-agenda**  labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/node
  - Support pausing the debugger on script load [#24687](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/24687)
    - PR open against V8
    - need to see the status on that.

### nodejs/diagnostics

  - Diagnostics WG Summit Agenda -2019-03-07, 2019-03-08 - [#276](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/267)
    - Good discussion on filling out detail in agenda
    - Some owners assigned to topics
    - See doc in issue

  - Post-mortem debugging support inside V8/Node.js [#227](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/227)
    - discussed some during agenda 
    - 3 different solutions proposed
    - call tomorrow w/ interested parties to discuss further

  - Diagnostics "Best Practices" Guide? - [#211](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/211)
    - Gireesh had a meeting
    - Minutes form meeting are in pull [#271](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/pull/271)
    - should spend time in breakout to dive into more details

  - \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
    - no update

  - Diag WG Deep Dives - topics [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/168)
     - no update

  - Expectation about tier of support from diagnostic tools and VMs [#157](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/157)
    - no update
  
  - Async-context formalization and diagnostics support [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
    - call with v8 team happened in December
    - Set of next steps identified on how to move forward 
    - need to close on these next steps, plan to have more detail by Diag summit.

  - \[trace_event\] tracking issue [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/84)
    - @kjin - looking into using perfetto in node, to align w/ what v8 is using

  - Network Debug support
    - we need to find an owner
    - if we can't find someone to drive on this, we'll remove from agenda

