# Node.js  Diagnostics WorkGroup Meeting 2021-01-06

## Links

* **Recording**:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rPiD0OchmpA
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qCrsUxc5sqXczKxVE1tWmf_LR2Ci0llNQ-HzDTTMnAU/edit

## Present

* Stephen Belanger (@qard)
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Rafael Gonzaga (@rafaelgss)
* Mary Marchini (@mmarchini)


## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

* No announcements this week.

### nodejs/node

* async_hooks: use new v8::Context PromiseHook API [#36394](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/36394)
  * good progress, just a few last changes that Stephen will tackle soon and looks like it should land.

### nodejs/diagnostics

* Discussion: Move node-inspect into core? [#459](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/459)
  * Mary: summary of the issues (confusion, code getting out of sync, inconsistent publish to npm, lack of maintainers, etc.)
  * Mary: should we move to core? Consensus seems to be so
  * Mary: will open an issue to make sure there are no objections from Diagnostics team
* Identify async_hooks use cases beyond AsyncLocalStorage [#437](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/437)
  * Stephen: trying to identify path forward with async hooks
    * In it’s current form it shouldn’t be considered stable (exposes internals)
    * Should we be layering stuff on top of async_hooks?
    * Or try to eliminate bits that are unsafe?
    * etc. etc.
    * To reach a decision we need to identify async_hooks use cases
    * Michael: should we do a survey?
    * Mary: maybe a freeform survey, one/two multiple choice questions + a text field where folks can describe their use cases
    * Stephen: already gathered some use cases and found particular needs
    * Mary: will create a PR with draft survey so we can iterate on it
    * Mary: should we create a new issue?
    * (no strong opinions either way)

* https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/11893
  * Rafael: should we implement the blackbox on Chrome DevTools or Node.js internal?
  * Mary: not sure if there will be pushback from DevTools to that change, other than that implementing on DevTools seems like a good idea
  * Michael: DevTools is a good idea if the blackbox rules won’t change
  * Mary: they shouldn’t :fingers-crossed:
  * Rafael: maybe we can implement on node-inspect first, and then propose to DevTools?
  * Mary and Michael: sgtm

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
