Second educators outreach meeting, October 11, 2018 16:00 UTC

For this meeting, we'll continue with the items from the last meeting that we didn't have time to cover. Please add additional agenda items below.

Attendees

Vaidehi Joshi

Yulia Startsev

Johannes Ewald

Daniel Ehrenberg

Sarah Groff Hennigh-Palermo (half)

Notes are in RED

Agenda

* New attendee introductions
* Feature review
    * Global [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global) 
        * DE: JE, you added the first three issues, do you want to start with them?
        * JE: I am not following the tc39 meetings too closely, but from my perspective i really like the effort to unify all of the environments (node / web) unless it is necessary to be environment specific. I find it a bit weird to have window as the defacto global object. There are several efforts. Global, url constructor, etc. I really like these efforts.
        * DE: great, I agree that working across environments is important, there are several efforts in this direction. For Global, what happened was we got to stage 3 as just global, but some browsers tried to ship it, and it broke web compatibility. Moment, the library, was using global to check if it was running in node or on the web. Now we are thinking about using "globalThis". It looks like it might go to stage 4 that way. Any more thoughts on this?
        * JE: not on my side, just wanted to leave that general note. From the educator perspective, i think the javascript ecosystem is one of the most difficult things to teach. Especially with modules, it’s impossible to teach modern javascript because there is too much tooling overhead. Regular scripts are fine for early beginners, but modern javascript becomes really hard.
        * DE: Do you think making modules work natively in the web and on node is good for that?
        * JE: yeah of course, it’s one of the big remaining challenges.
    * Optional Chaining Operator (status update) [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-optional-chaining](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-optional-chaining) 
        * DE: this is the `?.` proposal. If you don’t know if a property is on an object, you can use this for having a clearer syntax, rather than using ternary operators or if statements. There were four conflicting requirements - we have to have property access as well as square bracket property access and function calls. Another requirement was we wanted it to be really simple to parse. A third requirement was that the dot does not have its meaning confused, for example obj.["foo"] throws, so why is obj?.[“foo”] valid, etc. Strategy for now is to keep at stage one and try it with babel. Facebook is currently trying it. We will see how that developer feedback influences this. 
        * JE: When does the operator access the property? When the property is undefined or null?
        * DE: both
        * JE: I know that the typescript community struggled with what the question mark should mean, and they were talking about it meaning that a property is optional. 
        * DE: the null and undefined should be treated differently and as the same is also a discussion in the tc39. There is a separate proposal the null coalescing proposal. Yehuda and godfrey were arguing that we should have a triple or, which for me is pretty persuasive. Of all the features we have discussed i think this is one of the most important ones. Since people often use the `||` operator.
        * JE: yeah this is a common thing that people struggle with because they do not know all of the falsy values. But with the chaining operator, i think it would be good as well. It would address the undefined is not a property issue. And that’s where beginners struggle a lot. I am a fan of consistency in this case, so it is kind of strange that the default parameter (ex. Fn (x="foo’)) only reacts to undefined, and this would break with that.
        * JE: the syntax with the dot before the parenthesis doesn’t seem logical to me. I don’t know what problems there are when you try to parse it. 
        * DE: interestingly in other languages that have such operators…. <missed this>
        * <viewing the proposal>
        * JE: I think the problem is just with the function call for me. Does the question operator have to work with the function calls
        * <further viewing of the proposal>
        * JE: Oh I see. I didn’t recognize the question mark and the dot as a single operator. If it is consistent and you are always using this combination of characters, then it is teachable. 
    * Nullish Coalescing Operator (status update) [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-nullish-coalescing/](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-nullish-coalescing/) 
        * DE: we just discussed this
    * Status of class features [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields) 
        * DE: last meeting we discussed this with regards to private fields and methods. Status update on that - we will stick with the current class features proposals. We have had some comments on github that people do not like it, but we will move ahead. Private fields are new, with the hash syntax. How does this seem for teachability? 
        * S?: I have very few thoughts about classes except for "why"
        * JE: personally I am not a big fan of classes, but in my experience it helps a lot of people coming from other languages and people learning object oriented programming. It makes it easier for them to get started. I think the private fields -- to me the syntax is kind of strange. You don’t know that from other languages. If you get past the syntax its ok I guess.
        * VA?: I definitely agree that coming from another language it’s easier for people. It’s the first thing people will reach for.
        * JE: Yeah you can start teaching people other patterns after.
        * S?: do you find people moving away from it? Does it lead to a monoculture of code? I wonder if by replicating those class features in javascript it leads to a monoculture?
        * JE: I think the syntax is really good, people don’t even learn prototype inheritance/.
        * YS: <thoughts about that we need to do this but it will be hard to teach because it complicates the mental model>
        * DE: we do still need documentation and teaching materials about this. I was wondering if this group would be interested or people interested in classes could collaborate on making these kind of documentation?
        * S?: I think it’s also good to include people who don’t love classes making some of these materials. It gives a different perspective. 
        * DE: For sure! A few people who I talked to about classes said that it was the best of the available options. The idea is that the hash means that its invisible. I don’t know what you think about that?
        * S?: Yeah i think these people who think this is the least bad would be a good group of people to get to do the documentation
    * Decorators [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators) 
        * DE: Even if classes are not the best thing for daily programming, we have heard that using classes with decorators works really well for representing components. This makes it easier to use than what they would have without. Its stage 2 right now, but its being held back by the discussion of what should happen with export. I tried to convince people that this wasn’t very important. 
        * JE: these syntax questions are not that important. For me there is no right or wrong in this case. I think just stick to one, it won’t be that important in the end. Regarding decorators, I have very mixed feelings about them. I think they are kind of complicated because they are into that meta programming. Right now it’s really hard to get good support for them. But this is more related to the ecosystem, but it is hard for me to separate the ecosystem from the writing.
        * S?: do you have a quick example of what the issues are?
        * DE: one camp argues that the export is like an operator and should be as close to the class as possible, and so the decorators should come before. The other camp is that export is exporting and expression and export should be before the decorators. But i agree that the bigger issue is the ecosystem
        * S?: I think thinking of export as related to expression is much more common as a mental model, so I think that is more significant.
        * DE: Thats interesting, We have people arguing that it should be like in typescript.
        * S?: I think that typsecript decisions shouldn’t be javascript decisions.
        * JE: to me the community argument is not the most important one, but it should be considered. Personally I write the decorators before the export. My editor informed me that it doesnt work, but when i changed it to the other way it made more sense. 
        * S?: I dont know, JS is very trend driven and I am not sure this is a good way to make decisions.
    * (if you are interested in discussing a particular feature, insert it here)
        * (anything to revisit from last meeting?)
* JS developer pain points
    * Error messages
        * <Yulia is interested in getting more involved in error messages: asking for context>
        * DE: The issue is that the errors don’t always give good messages, and its not clear what kind of messages are confusing, what kind of situations come up, and brain storm some of those issues.
        * YS: <general excitement. What about rust style suggestions?>
        * VJ: I would plus one that, pointing out a line or giving a suggestion like in rust would be really great
        * S?: I would also be really interested in working on this. I have a list regarding BigInt errors that aren’t quite clear. 
        * JE: I also agree on all points. There are a lot of things to improve. Beginners really struggle with errors. 
        * DE: Maybe lets start with a repository for errors?
        * JE: maybe we could ask students for a list of errors they find confusing, we have a new semester starting.
        * S?: we could have people open issues!
    * Console semantics [https://github.com/bmeck/js-repl-goal](https://github.com/bmeck/js-repl-goal) 
    * Module syntax (export vs default export)
    * try/catch ergonomics (forces to use let, catching specific errors is hard) [https://github.com/zenparsing/es-typed-catch](https://github.com/zenparsing/es-typed-catch) 
    * (Think about further items to add)
* Next steps on documentation
    * DE: we might want to pause on this?
    * VJ: what is the process for documentation?
    * DE: there isn’t one, TC39 produces things and external groups do the documentation. MDN was the place where we were syncing, but it would be good to have multiple sources of documentation. It would also be good to have documentation earlier in the feature process.
    * VJ: are you thinking that someone reading documenation on mdn, and there is a related proposal, we would introduce them to that?
    * DE: MDN already had this goal of being more involved, so they would be up for linking proposal.
    * YS: what about having a proposal writer as a person who takes point of communication of a proposal?
    * JE: I think students would be overwhelmed by something like this. I couldn’t think of one student who would understand how one our students would get involved. Reading the specification is really overwhelming.
    * DE: reading the spec is really hard for everyone. We should make that clearer
    * VJ: Something like being a point person for creating the documentation could be a good way of showing how teachable something is. The end goal of documenting will bring people in who are new to the proposal so what is being proposed might not be intuitive. That might alleviate the issue of "these proposals have a barrier of entry" we might be able to improve this. If there are issues teaching the person doing the documention, that might show a teachability issue.
    * DE: next stages?
    * YS: buy in? Sarah is kind of doing this role.
    * DE: how about we have optional chaining or the pipeline operator as candidates for early documentation? Sarah would you be interested? 
    * S?: I would be really interested in pipeline. I can see if there are other people who are interested.
    * VJ: I would like to volunteer, maybe we can talk about it offline?
    * DE: How about decorators?
    * VJ: sure
    * JE: I also want to volunteer. I think its a good possibility to learn about the new proposals.
    * DE: Is there any proposal you would be interested in? How about optional chaining?
    * JE: Sure optional chaining sounds good
    * Are some people in this group interested in splitting up and writing documentation? Helping with TC39 messaging? (MDN collaboration: [https://discourse.mozilla.org/t/mdn-tc39-collaboration/30798](https://discourse.mozilla.org/t/mdn-tc39-collaboration/30798))
    * Should we be engaging with other tech writers more broadly? Or reviewing and giving feedback on existing docs?
    * Next steps on process suggestions
* Meeting future
    * Dan is just not capable of doing a big Doodle every month. Does anyone else want to do that? Otherwise, does this fixed time work out OK? (It's fine if you miss some of them.)
