Educators outreach meeting, January 10, 2019, 17:00 UTC

Attendees:

* Max Koretskyi
* Shwetank Dixit
* Sarah Groff Hennigh-Palermo
* Johannes Weber
* Kyle Simpson
* Jory Burson
* Brian Kardell
* Wolfram Kriesing

Agenda & notes

* Introductions
    * Many new people from GDE program
    * Purpose of this group:
        * Review feature proposals from the perspective of educators. "How learnable is this feature?"
        * Collaborate on documentation and education efforts for new JavaScript language features
* Follow-up on documentation efforts (25 m)
    * MDN documentation
        * How is documentation going?
            * SGH: I worked with Daniel on the BigInt documentation; I got in touch with Florian [Scholz], who made a list of things to do. I've been working through it. A shorter getting-started guide would be helpful. I've been slowly adding things. The biggest con is that there's not a lot of feedback from the MDN side--I type things into a black hole and now they exist! I don't know if they are good
            * KS: If it feels like throwing it into a black box, should we do peer reviews?
            * DE: How about we make a GitHub issue to ask for review requests, after posting things in the wiki?
            * SGH: Often if there's a big group, it could be its own black hole. Maybe a smaller email thread, for people with more investment.
            * Conclusion: Start with a GitHUb issue, @-ing people, and move to email if needed
        * Taking on documentation tasks
            * Kyle -- optional chaining
            * Max -- pipeline operator
                * SGH: I was hoping to still work on this too, so together?
                * MK: yeah, that’d be awesome
                * SGH: :D 
            * Shwetank: Temporal proposal sounds good to me. I can take it on.

    * Newsletter effort and update:
        * Creating a separate Newsletter ([prototype](https://www.dropbox.com/preview/ES.next%20News/esnextnews_com/Mockup%20Whitelabeled%20TC39%20Outreach%20Update.html))
            * Pros/Chances
- having a dedicated newsletter
- focused on TC39 updates
- being independently
            * Cons/Risks
- finding an owner and curator
  - Jory: Could the TC39 or the Node + JSF appoint someone to a JS community reporter role?
- consumes time and resource investment for making it public
- needs to get funding when reaching > 2000 Subscriber
  - this could be supported by the JSF at that point
- lack of time (assuming a time investment of 3-4h each issue)
        * Using an existing Newsletter ([prototype](https://www.dropbox.com/preview/ES.next%20News/esnextnews_com/Mockup%20ESnextNews%20TC39%20Outreach%20Update.html))
            * Pros/Chances
- reach an already existing, topic-focused user base
- the topic owner would be jowe
- time effort is less, a workflow for it exists since 3y
- no funding necessary
            * Cons/Risks
- not explicitly TC39 focused subscriber
- appearing not independently
        * Web-based newsletter on github pages
            * collaborate on adding articles using jowe’s templates
            * new "newsletter" only when 1 or 2 “articles” are ready, so on an irregular schedule at first
            * also on an irregular basis, we can take one high-profile article from the latest newsletter and push it out via ES-Next News, JSWeekly, etc, with a link back to the full newsletter
        * Questions to answer within the update:
            * What happened since the last TC39 Call?
            * What are the current discussed Topics?
            * What have been the most discussed features last month and why?
    * KS: How about we make a static page that we can update occasionally, whenever there's something to say, and then we can get it included in popular newsletters when it comes up?
    * General agreement, JW to set up the page
* Meta: How should this group work? ( 7m)
    * Should we work towards shared conclusions on things, which we can recommend to TC39?
        * BK: Is this mutually exclusive? We could agree on some things and work separately on other things.
        * SGH: That suggestion makes a lot of sense, when we have an agreement, bubbling that up as a recommendation would probably be very helpful.
        * BK: I do think that, short of recommendation, finding better ways to bubble up whatever kind of feedback could be distilled is helpful. If we have people talking to the groups, how difficult they found it to explain concepts, I think that stuff is frequently not available to people in standards.
    * Should we make a recommendation to TC39 on documentation in TC39's stage process? Or other things?
        * KS: The recent discussions about globalThis brought out process and culture issues related to this group. Some people in that thread said, "we name things based on how we think about them in the spec process. It's not as big a concern to us that the name makes sense to end users of the language. We name things based on academic ideas." This is antithetical to making this a learnable language. Another culture problem is the idea that TC39 does not take community pushback seriously on a topic as indicative that they need to do more work. I asked in that thread, does it concern TC39 members that they are getting this feedback? They said no; that is concerning to me. I had a number of backchannel discussions with people, asking why not make the community feedback.
        * DE: Many of us do care; we'll be discussing this at the next meeting. But I'm also a champion of controversial proposals, and so I'm not sure what to do.
        * BK: We could improve communication to make it clear that feedback was heard; Kyle didn't want to entirely remove the feature, but make sure that it's explained well and that people are listened to.
        * KS: People want to know that, when they share an opinion, that due deference is given to that opinion. Why can't TC39 say, "we hear your feedback, we considered this, and we decided that." Nobody seemed to be willing to come into the thread from TC39 and say something.
        * SGH: It's the lack of a more explicit feedback process; feedback could be all sorts of ways that are difficult to act on. Maybe this group could suggest certain  process changes to process this feedback.
        * DE: It can be really hard to process the feedback on GitHub threads; that can be negative sometimes.
        * KS: I support TC39, and I want TC39 to be successful at running this process. I think TC39 faces a massive perception problem, and a bridge to that is having educators on board, and those people need to feel that, if they bring some feedback, then it's going to get heard. They need to know that that effort is worth it. If you have me and Axel on board, feeling heard, we will be your champions, in terms of improving the public perception of TC39. Since I'm not a TC39 member, I need to represent the non-TC39 perspective.
        * JB: I serve on TC39 as the code of conduct committee chairperson. While most of the conversation in the community is fine, we have a number of threads that get out of hand, for all parties. We lack a bit of the governance that more traditional organizations could use. This point about culture change isn't expressly in the mandate of the CoC, but it's an important piece of the fabric. If we can make clear goals about priorities, if we can get people to agree to appoint a member of the management committee as a spokesperson, to make sure that people know they have been heard--we're in the more modern era and we need a more modern approach.
        * BK: I have one question and one comment: In the W3C, you have a priority-of-constituencies: [https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies)
            * *** This should be followed up on in the next meeting, because I think there’s an important gap to be filled here.
        * Threads on globalThis that brought out process/culture issues related to the education/learnability for JS:
            * [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global/issues/31](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global/issues/31)
            * [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global/issues/32](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global/issues/32)
    * Would you be interested in doing reviews on proposals before they're going for Stage 3?
        * General agreement	
