## Node.js Joint Strategy Subcommittee

February 7, 2018


#### Present:

- Mark Hinkle, Executive Director of Node.js Foundation
- Sarah Novotny, Node.js Foundation Board of Directors
- Todd Moore, Chair of Node.js Foundation Board of Directors
- Ashley Williams, Node.js Foundation Board of Directors
- William Kapke, Node.js Foundation Board of Directors
- Tierney Cyren, Co-Chair of Node.js Community Committee
- Rachel White, Co-Chair of Node.js Community Committee
- Michael Dawson, Chair of Node.js Community Committee
- Myles Borin, Director of Node.js TSC
- Tracy Hinds, CommComm member

#### Topics:

- What is the focus of this committee? 
- Discuss what can be talked about in these meetings(sensitive subjects? private board matters?) 
- Publish the purpose of the subcommittee, please 
- Set a level of discourse that is beyond the CoC because of the nature of who attends these 
meetings and for how sensitive these discussions will be. Tracy will facilitate and moderate 
for these guidelines. 
  

### Potential focus and initiatives of this committee:

- Expectations  
    - of Board 
    - Project expectations for Executive Director 
    - Expectations of Foundation + OSS Project relationship 

- The Future of Individual Membership Program 
    - Board representation for Community Elected positions 

- Management of Community Programs (formerly homed in the foundation) 
    - Values Exercise (handed off to the project for leading sessions) 
        - Need to identify someone to synthesize/own driving to completion. 

    - Education program  
        - Node Together (Rachel is Leading) 

    - Collaborators Summit 

* * *

##### Anti Trust Compliance Notice
Node.js Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Node.js Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws. 
  
Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Node.js Foundation meetings and in connection with Node.js Foundation activities are described in the Node.js Foundation Antitrust Policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Node.js Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Node.js Foundation.
* * *
  
## NOTES
#### What is the focus of this committee?  

Bring together the leaders of the different community and project leadership with leaders from the Board in order to have a more cohesive leadership. 

Resolve Tracy to chair organize meetings, agenda, get contacts for future meeting invites, and carry in discussion to Board for report.

- What is the focus of this committee? 
    - From a strategic standpoint, this subcommittee can be an executive committee across the project, bringing together leadership across the different parts of the project including the TSC, Community Committee, Foundation staff and and Foundation Board.  

#### Discuss what can be talked about in these meetings(sensitive subjects? private board matters?)  

What is public? Do we record? How transparent and how to accomplish this for external sharing? Conversations could be difficult and candid conversation could be challenging if we publish recordings.  

Revisit recording for future meetings.

Ask at every meeting wrap for what can be discussed publicly(should be public unless asked to be private) 

For Board private matters, Directors are held to privacy rules so they will not share information unless they have permission to do so.

Paraphrased positions can be discussed to help reconcile solutions for the community and the Board. 

Set guidelines for ensuring the arguments are presented and not the people making the arguments in discussions shared publicly. We should default to public but we’ll ask at every meeting for anything requested to remain private.

Community representatives will need, on many occasions, to bring items back to committees for feedback and position-making/decision-making.

#### Publish the purpose of the subcommittee

Where? Board repo would be canonical place. A blogpost may be useful to share this new initiative. Strengthens messaging for this year that we’re working on uniting. Talk to Zibby and Sarah about planning this.

#### Set a level of discourse that is beyond the CoC because of the nature of who attends these meetings and for how sensitive these discussions will be. 

Tracy will facilitate and moderate for these guidelines.

Send leadership guidelines to everyone prior to the meeting to set environment prior.

Mark will check on antitrust messaging with Andy and whether Andy should attend these sessions(or needs to review minutes). 

#### Managing expectations around the position this subcommittee holds

Whatever is decided in the subcommittee is not binding. Get Board members to participate so that we are building consensus to set proposals up for success because buy-in. A minimum of four Board directors and three project leaders. A Board director is counted first for quorum and cannot also be counted as a project leader.

#### Prioritizing topics

Next meeting(at IndexConf, same time)

### Find positions on...

- Expectations (30 minutes)
  - of Board 
  - Project expectations for Executive Director 
  - Expectations of Foundation + OSS Project relationship 
  
- The Future of Individual Membership Program(30 minutes)

Who else should be in this session? As many Board directors who are interested. 

Month away meeting

### Drive to proposal...

- Expectations (30 minutes)
  - of Board 
  - Project expectations for Executive Director 
  - Expectations of Foundation + OSS Project relationship 
  
- The Future of Individual Membership Program(30 minutes)

Is there anything we shouldn’t share from today’s session? Looks good. 

### ACTION ITEMS
- Tracy: Revisit recording for future meetings. 
- Tracy: Ask at every meeting wrap for what can be discussed publicly(should be public unless asked to be private)  
- Tracy: Email Sarah Conway and Zibby Keaton at the Node.js Foundation for blogpost with a few voices from this meeting introducing the subcommittee and collaboration of leadership for 2018. 
- Mark: check with Andy about meeting minutes and recording, as well as whether Andy must be scheduled to attend future meetings. 
- Tracy: Document quorum requirements for subcommittee in Board repo 
- Myles: Notify Board Directors of next meeting for invites. Will be onsite at IndexConf with ability to call-in 
- Tracy: email all invitees prior to the meeting 1. Agenda 2. Decorum leadership guidelines
