May 28, 2019. 20:00 Europe/Madrid

Attendees:

* Brian Kardell
* Dan Ehrenberg
* Jordan Harband
* Sven Sauleau
* Julien Gilli
* Guy Bedford
* Nicolò Ribaudo

Agenda and notes:

* Any input on how to conduct this meeting? Additional people to recruit?
    * JG: Should this group be more open, rather than just the people who are invited?
    * DE: I've been trying to keep this focused to people who work on tools and/or participate in TC39. There's another effort to have a general open call. You can email me for an invite.
    * BK: I'm interested in this area of open discussions; let's follow up off-line.  We can maybe work together on a proposal for how this would work and come back to review this in the next meeting.
    * JG: I really appreciate the minuting, I think that is a very good quality for people who maybe can't be involved in all of the discussions or are just starting to join, or even maybe want to fill in things they might have missed.
    * GB: It's such a big space, I'm almost hesitant to bring new things.  On the one hand I am tempted to bring a lot of things that I think would be great to discuss, but on the other we have such limited bandwidth that we have to keep it productive.
    * DE: Yes, I want to invite people from other groups where they don't fit exclusively to TC39, maybe we can include them as possibilities at the bottom of the topics section for next time and we can try to find ways to invite those people.
    * BK: Maybe this is related to the offline conversation we were talking about having - because it's related I think. In my past experiments in this area.  Could we maybe open an issue in the gh and discuss async mostly between now and the next meeting.
    * / decided that seems good /
* Review top-level await updates
    * Big change based on feedback on this meeting: Synchronous execution of chains of parents that don't use TLA [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-top-level-await/pull/74](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-top-level-await/pull/74) 
        * DE: Guy worked through and addressed the issues we discussed last time.
        * DE: Would be great to have help reviewing it.
        * JH: Lot of interplay between node, browser, wasm, etc. If you set that aside, I'd say it shouldn't exist. It doesn't seem like async/await should ever be implicit. However, due to what's going on with the world: this seems important for HTML modules and Wasm modules. So the capability is going to exist. We have to be pragmatic: If this capability will exist, then how can we mitigate as many concerns as possible, and make sure it's as tightly specified as possible, and reduce unintended consequences. I like the direction it's gone; I'm vaguely concerned about follow-on impacts, but I don't have a better solution, and it's hard to make the concerns concrete enough to change the proposal.
        * BT: Are there things that seem especially mysterious that bother you?
        * JH: I don't like how the execution order of things can change, but it's hard to discuss; it needs a whiteboard. If you add top-level await to a module, it can have any impact--I would like to not have any idea whether those things use top-level await. It's unfortunate that those can change. A rebuttal to that is, if I import 5 things, and the 2nd and 4th bring in module "a", the certainty I think I have about module execution
        * DE: GB and I have worked very hard to try to maintain the determinism there and I feel like we have really improved this a lot.
        * JH: Yes, I appreciate this work a lot and I'm thankful for it
        * DE: / explains how importing a module with a top level await sorts itself out - how we can improve startup time while balancing the complexity of writing/reasoning about it  / this is an argument for why it is a really good thing maybe, and not just some things that we've mitigated
        * JH: I feel like previous proposal would have not worked out for node, and would have been disruptive, but it seems that recent changes have made me feel a lot better about that
        * BK: is it possible,  if you have some dep, that used a module TLA or not; that you could adapt it as a consumer?
        * JH: you'd have to avoid using the feature and use an async function.
        * JG: We'd like to look into this proposal in more in Netflix
        * SS: There's a PR for top-level await with `import await`. Apart from that, I didn't get a chance… We're not sure what to do with Babel (we’ll need to discuss it).
        * (link [https://github.com/webpack/webpack/pull/9177](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/pull/9177))
        * JH: What should babel do, given that it's not always used in bundlers?
        * SS: Currently that's the biggest thing. Last time, it sounded like TypeScript had the same issue. It'd be very difficult for us to polyfill or transpile things, so the idea would be to leave top-level await for the bundler, as we do for import statements in a certain model.
        * GB: Would this work to implement in webpack? With bundlers as targets, they can use the graph information to fully support it, I believe. I have a PR for Rollup which does this
        * DE: I think Tobias Koppers prefers `import await`, which changes the semantics a bit, and makes the synchronous reaction semantics not make sense (when you include the await, it's an async module)
        * GB: More different modes would increase cognitive overhead, which we'd like to avoid in the Node Modules team
        * SS: Probably a good idea to follow up with Tobias
    * Will propose for Stage 3 in the June 4-6 2019 TC39 meeting
    * More thoughts?
* [Decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/)
    * New decorators proposal: Static decorators
    * Goal: Tooling should be able to expand out decorators ahead of time, if they want to
    * Goal: Type systems should be able to understand decorators
    * Goal: Current tooling can implement decorators
    * Does this decorators proposal meet that goal? Should we consider changes?
        * DE: / Explains some history and the criticism in the January meeting about performance/optimization concerns and how the new proposal walks a line to balance the expressiveness and power but in a more limited way that allows optimizations.  /
        * JH: I'm curious about the transition plan, when two modules export a decorator, with one of them being transpiled and the other one would be native. How would you mix these?
        * NR: My implementation would transpile decorator declarations. If there are some transpiled and some native decorators, users would need to transpile them. If you're depending on something that ships un-transpiled decorators, you can remove the Babel plugin. Babel wouldn't read the imported file, but we'd need a metadata declaration file, like a .d.ts file for decorators, and we'd read that file instead.
        * DE: What if we encourage people to ship both the original source and the transpiler output?
        * JH: I encourage that. But, this doesn't match the ecosystem. For example, React Native checks the .babelrc and makes sure it's the same across the whole module graph. Encouraging people to transpile code they don't author is dangerous.
        * SS: If you want to ship the source, you use TypeScript
        * JH: This hits compatibility issues across TypeScript versions. You're supposed to emit backwards-compatible .d.ts files. I hope that we don't encourage this for our system. We can't encourage Babel to reach into some other module and transpile it, since maybe they have JSX on. Instead, if we have these configuration files, then it's enough.
        * NR: That was my idea, see design doc: [https://hackmd.io/44ErLPn8Qi6FshyoTcrXcA#Phase-4-Add-support-for-importing-decorators-from-different-files](https://hackmd.io/44ErLPn8Qi6FshyoTcrXcA#Phase-4-Add-support-for-importing-decorators-from-different-files) 
        * DE: Could this configuration file have a "native" value, that it maps things to (instead of the built-in decorator list) when it should treat it as a real decorator output?
        * BK: Was this an issue for earlier decorator versions?
        * JH: This was the first time decorators were not first-class values.
        * BK: Is there some kind of naming construct that we could use to show that the decorators are polyfills?
        * JH: Babel could establish a convention that 
* Additional topics (likely for next meeting)
    * Additional module types (HTML, CSS, JSON, WebAssembly, built-in). CSS modules in particular seem like they could do with tooling feedback at this stage.
    * It may be completely off-topic, but it would be interesting to hear about user perspectives on [https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1307](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1307) (in theory JS analysis tools would benefit from these directions).
