# 28th Meeting of TC39-TG3 - 2024-07-03

## Folks

> [!NOTE]
> Add a ✓ to the `Present` column in the table below, and add anyone missing. Also add to [the template](../template.md) and [GitHub team](https://github.com/orgs/tc39/teams/tg3) if the individual is a regular attendee.

| Present | Name             | GH Username     | TLA | Affiliation |
| :-----: | ---------------- | --------------- | --- | ----------- |
|    ✓    | Chris de Almeida | @ctcpip         | CDA | IBM         |
|    ✓    | Daniel Ehrenberg | @littledan      | DE  | Bloomberg   |
|    ✓    | Eli Grey         | @eligrey        |     | Transcend   |
|    ✓    | Jasvir Nagra     | @jasvir         |     | Picovisor   |
|    ✓    | Jovonni          |                 |     |             |
|    ✓    | Kris Kowal       | @kriskowal      | KKL | Agoric      |
|    ✓    | Mathieu Hofman   | @mhofman        | MHN | Agoric      |
|    ✓    | Michael Ficarra  | @michaelficarra | MF  | F5          |
|    ✓    | Nicolò Ribaudo   | @nicolo-ribaudo | NRO | Igalia      |
|    ✓    | Richard Gibson   | @gibson042      | RGN | Agoric      |
|    ✓    | Ulises Gascón    | @UlisesGascon   | UG  | One Beyond  |

## Agenda

> [!NOTE]
> See [backlog.md](../backlog.md) for outstanding action items and agenda topics.

## Minutes

* Nicolò clarified the deferred module exports namespaces are different from the moddule exports namespace but there will only be one for each module instance. It exists to allow property access for a failed import to rethrow the import error.
* We briefly recorded a problem statement for module source reflection in terms of (imports, exports, reexports) versus bindings.
* Nicolò mentioned that he and Legedecas will be bringing <https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/3160> to plenary
