# Meeting Notes
> Tuesday, November 17th at 16:00 UTC (08:00 PST, 11:00 EST, 17:00 CET, 21:30 IST)

[Youtube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oBkMYONPYp8)

## Present:
 - Ashley Williams @ashleygwilliams
 - Jona Hugger @sup
 - Julie Pagano @juliepagano
 - thefourtheye @thefourtheye
 - Kat March√°n @zkat
 - Bryan Hughes @nebrius
 - Rich Trott @Trott

## Proposed Agenda:
 - Scope/mission of the WG
 - The submission process for joining the WG
 - Balancing privacy and transparency in public/private communication systems
 - Moderation policies and enforcement
 - Schedule and Assignment of Deliverables (when due, reviewed, submitted, and by who, to whom)

## Deliverables:
 - Membership Policy 1.0 (how to join, responsibilities)
 - Charter 1.0
 - CoC 1.0

## Summary

### Scope/mission of the WG
- short term have it's own autonomy
- long term extend to the larger node community
- moderate ourselves,make recommendations for larger Node project
- we don't want to be involved enforcement
- legislative, judicial

### Balancing Privacy and Transparency
- Overwhelming agreement that private channels for incident reporting and discussion
- All decisions and outcomes will be publicly announced, rationalized and discussed
- Not "coming down from on high"
- Need a way to cut the noise and focus discussion
- Be clear and structured in regards to the feedback we want on a given issue
- Make private discussions public, read-only
- Private incident reponse will make it easier to educate the person and remove public chastising
- Anonymized public line item reports (give TSC final publicization ability)
- Trolling policy: new account, derailing, harrassment
- Mute policy: temporary ban sans longer moderation trial, will be reviewed later

### Deliverables
- Membership Policy, Bryan Hughes, Reviewer: Julie Pagano, Friday 11/20 PR,  Friday 11/27
- Charter, Ashley Williams, Reviewer: All Meeting Participants, To Merge: Tuesday 11/17,
- CoC, Ashley Williams, Reviewer: Julie Pagano, To Merge: Friday 11/20,

## Minutes

0:00

Welcome and introductions (see full list of people above).

2:10

Summarization of the agenda items and deliverables to be covered (see full list of agenda items and deliverables above).

2:52 - Scope of the Working Group

Ashley Williams: presented the idea of breaking the scope down into short term and long term. The scope of the WG should include autonomy, i.e. the ability for the working group to define it's own scope. Specifically, the group should have the ability to define it's own Code of Conduct (CoC from here on out) and have the ability to moderate itself. Longer term, this group should look into upstreaming this work to the broader project as a whole, making recommendations on project-wide CoC and advising on moderation.

Julie Pagano: Agreed with Ashley, the larger purpose of this group is to provide guidence to the rest of the project on inclusivity and diversity, but this group should also be able to manage itself, especally in the short term.

Bryan Hughes: Added that the TSC does grant working groups autonomy in terms of being able to set up a CoC and moderating itself.

Ashley Williams: Brought up that some people felt the WG does not have the ability to define its own CoC. Rebuttle: since WG's are autonomous, that should include the ability to define a CoC different from the project

Julie Pagano: Since this WG deals with topics that are more sensitive than most other groups deal with, it makes sense to have a stricter CoC. Also mentioned the project CoC does not have information on who to contact/what to do in case of a violation of the CoC.

Ashley Williams: The points of policy between the Node CoC and the NPM CoC are mostly identical, but the NPM CoC adds important operational elements that make it enforceable. The ability to enforce is critical for the WG.

Kat Marchan: Enforcement is a point of contention right now in the broader conversation. This seems to be stemming from people's fears of overreach by the WG group, and fears that the WG would start a witch hunt. This is no one's intention, and the hope is that once policies are actually being enacted and people can see the specifics being proposed, those fears will be eased. Brief discussion of how, for example, we would ask people to change their wording if they used problematic wording, why it's important, and what enforcement would ideally look like (not dogpiling).

Julie Pagano: Fear of dogpiling and fear of broad, unilateral power to enforce, and would do so with malice, is the cause of a lot of pushback currently, but the WG does not actually have or want broad authority, nor does it want to act maliciously.

Group: No one wants to yell at people, it's not fun and not a goal

Ashley Williams: Summarizing: the WG would like autonomy and have the ability to moderate itself, and would like the ability to provide recommendations for moderation to the greater node project.

Group agreed with summarization.

Kat Marchan: It's important to point out that we had an actual harrassment campaign targeting the inclusivity WG, and making requests to the TSC is not an efficient mechanism for moderating under these circumstances. Not being able to moderate efficiently hurts the ability for the WG to operate effectively.

Bryan Hughes: time check, the WG doesn't really want to be involved in actual enforcement across the project, and suggested this is out of scope for the WG

Ashley: Brought up that enforcement and moderation are terms we've been using them interchangeably, but may not be the same thing. The role of this WG would be to provide recommendations, but not be in charge of the actual enforcement operations.

Group clarification of terms and further clarification around separation of responsibilities.

Ashley Williams: This group should not be a silo, the work done in the WG should be upstreamed to the broader project, and buy-in from the TSC is critical. The derailment currently going on is pushing off the need for the discussions and collaboration with the TSC.

15:18 - Submission processes for joining

Bryan Hughes recommended skipping the second agenda item, application process, for time reasons. The group agreed.

15:47 - Balancing Privacy and Transparency, Moderation and Enforcement

Bryan Hughes stated that it's important to provide a safe space for people to discuss things in private for anonymity reasons and for expediency reasons, but that transparency is also important for making better informed decisions, increasing buy-in, and generally just the right thing to do, and that these two areas are somewhat at odds with each other. How do we find the balance?

Ashley Williams: The things that we do should be public, handling incident response should be done in private, then anonymized and published publicly.

Kat Marchan: Private discussions are valuable for bringing up ideas that are not necessarily popular and need discussion to avoid early dogpiling and bike shedding, but that any decision made by the group should be made public. Private discussions are also necessary because some ideas are big and complicated, and it's beneficial to come up with a more fully formed proposal before posting it publicly, so that feedback can be directed and optimized. There has been a high level of noise in the current public discussions that this approach should help reduce.

Ashley Williams: Bullpen officies are difficult to focus in and not a good model. We need environments that lend themselves to getting useful, constructive feedback.

Julie Pagano: The intent is not to create fully formed proposals that are delivered from on high, but to get the proposals to a place where they are not still half-baked and causing derailments due to these ideas not being fully baked.

Ashley Williams: Posting in issues has a very low barrier to entry, which contributes to the noise, but the relatively high barrier to entry for participating in a video call actually helps attract the people that are invested in the outcome and that perhaps we should do more of them. They are recorded and public, but also reduce noise.

Julie Pagano: we need to keep accessibility concerns in mind (timezones, non-native English speakers, hearing/seeing ability, etc).

The Fourth Eye: the TSC meetings are invite only, but publicly viewable as well.

Ashley Williams: the more we can borrow from the TSC, the better

Kat Marchan: agreed, no need to reinvite the wheel every single time.

Bryan Hughes: asked The Fourth Eye and Jona's opinions as well via the chat in the hangout

Responses by sup lost due to chat channel not being part of the video, and responses were not read aloud.

The Fourth Eye: agreed that private channels are a necessary part of the process to avoid trolls, as we'd seen, but it's important that they be made public as well, after a short period of time. It was noted that the TSC works this way already as well.

Bryan Hughes: There is a need to document specifically what can and cannot be done in private, and what that mechanism might look like and opened up to the group

Ashley Williams: referencing Julie, all decisions should be made public and be publicly rationalized, and opening it open for public discussion for a period of time, and the finalizing the decision

Julie Pagano: suggested 1 week of waiting time. Incident response and moderation should be done in private, because doing this in public tends to be painful for everyone because doing it in public causes dogpiling. Private can be a good education opportunity as well, instead of punishment.

Kat Marchan: We can and should generate a proposal for how this is handled, specifically with respect to public vs private. Moderation shouldn't happen entirely in private, and anonymized reports should be made public. There may be rare cases where individuals should be named publicly in extreme cases. Publiclity levels should be related to the nature of the incident, although any higher level of publication should go through the TSC first.

Julie Pagano: Remphasized that this discussion about moderation is not what the inclusivity WG would be doing in any broader sense, but rather this would be for the Moderation WG to handle.

Bryan Hughes: Regarding recording actions taken: what about flat out trolls from outside harrassment campaigns from 4chan/8chan/etc that could end up bogging down the reporting system.

Julie Pagano: There should be a fast track exception for trolls taking part in a harrassment campaign.

Ashley Williams: The CoC should have a section about people acting in bad faith. We shouldn't question people's faith though, if a conversation is derailing, then intention doesn't change that.

Julie Pagano: There is a gray area to this that will need to be fleshed out.

Kat Marchan: There is a current evolution of trolls to act less and less egregious, but are still trying to derail/disrupt. We may need the ability to temp ban, in the spirite of a quick mute, but will revisit later in the need for expediency in keeping the WG on track and functioning. Looking at a persons experience/contributor can be useful in determining this.

Ashley Williams: there is a complication though in determining who is a part of the community or not, because code contributions are not the only way people get involved. What exactly is a rando?

Julie Pagano: also, just because someone is an active participant doesn't mean they aren't acting in bad faith.

Kat Marchan: Agreed, but it's probably a good idea anyways to make sure known contributors can't be fast tracked.

Ashley Williams: The external harrassment is a problem, but harrassment from within the TSC is the more difficult to deal with, since they are allowed to do pretty much whatever they want. Ideally the moderation WG would have a way to handle this behavior. Some of the infighting that has occured is extremely dangerous and needs to be looked at.

Bryan Hughes: Ultimately the existence of this WG is to fix those problems.

Ashley Williams: This is where autonomy and the ability to upstream things is very important, and in a way that doesn't incurr harrassment, which does not appear be the case right now.

Julie Pagano: We are still early in the process, and it will be easier to upstream things once the group is established and can show these policies are working, and things will get better over time.

Ashley Williams: Does this mean we need to ignore current infractions and hostility?

Julie Pagano: Not necessarily, but there are political considerations when deciding how to respond.

[Notes redacted due to private information being made public]

Julie Pagano: We should continue this conversation off air, as we don't really have the right people in the room to discuss this.

Bryan Hughes: Moderation and Enforcement was discussed quite a bit already, recommended moving on to deliverables. Group agreed.

40:18 - Assignment and schedule of deliverables

Bryan Hughes: Summarized the three deliverables, recommend tabling the submission process deliverable since the related agenda item was also skipped. The group felt it was still worth discussing.

Bryan Hughes: Having created a straw proposal already, offered to take on the role of getting a PR submitted. Julie Pagano volunteered to help code review/collaborate.

Ashley Williams: it's generally advisable to assign someone as a reviewer for this kind of remote work, to help grease the wheels and make sure things get done. Group agreed.

Group decided that a PR should be open by Friday, the 20th, and closed by the 27th. (Notetaker comment: this date has since been pushed back so it can be discussed as part of the next meeting, see https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/39 for more information).

Bryan Hughes: Moved to discussing the charter

Julie Pagano: there are two PRs right now, so how should we proceed.

Ashley Williams: recommend that we close the second PR (as seen here https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/pull/27) as wontfix and recommend issues/PRs be filed against the main PR (as seen here https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/pull/21) because it was anti-collaborative and similar to the other one open, minus some important provisions.

Kat Marchan: The second proposal brought up a question of scope, as the alternative proposal author seemed to be under the impression that this WG would have more power than it really does.

Ashley Williams: The second PR was causing problems/derailment in other because detractors were saying the existence of the alternative proposal indicated that things were always and indefinitely open to discussion, even though there are some things that do have a final, group-based decision. The existence of the alternative proposal undermined the autonomy and ability of this WG. This topic touches on many of the other problems discussed in this meeting. As a result, something should be landed today.

Bryan Hughes: Asked if we should add disclaimers at the top emphasizing the charter is not ratified and the document is a living document. Was informed that information was already there. Asked if it would be politically expedient to remove references in the charter to the broader Node.js community, as this was where much of the contention was focused.

Julie Pagano: Said this makes sense given what we wanted to focus on in the short term

The Fourth Eye: Mentioned it was difficult to keep up with the conversation

Some text chatting occured but was not recorded in the video

Group had a brief off, topic discussion of effectiveness of various real-time communication systems

Bryan Hughes: Asked if everyone wanted to try and land both the charter and CoC today

Ashley Williams: It would be more politically expedient to land the charter now, and CoC at a later date.

Julie Pagano: Doesn't the charter point to the CoC?

Ashley Williams: We can point the charter to the CoC PR for now (as seen here: https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/pull/22). We should also wait because there is more cleanup needed on the CoC PR. I'm pleased with the current conversation too, because everyone involved has been keeping a cool head and there is some good constructive conversation happening.

Bryan Hughes: would you like someone to help you review?

Ashley Williams: I'm happy to take point, but would love a buddy to make sure everyone's points are responded.

Bryan Hughes: Asked if Julie was able to help, Julie agreed.

Ashley Williams: Asked to clarify and summarize the remaining key issues with the charter in the meeting to help get it across the finish line. The group agreed the concerns being voiced were already being considered with the latest changes, and that it would be ready to land, and asked for people to give a +1 to the PR or any final feedback.

The group agreed to set a deadline of the end of the day to land the charter PR. (notetakers comment: the PR was landed one day later than the deadline to incorporate some last minute feedback).

Jona: Brought up that they and TheFourthEye did not have access to the slack, Bryan took it on as an action item send the invites. (notetakers comment: this was done shortly after the meeting).

Ashley Williams: Apologized for the oversight, mentioned this is why we need to get the application process defined.

Kat Marchan: pointed out that the term "collaborator" is a specific term in the Node.js organization, and we should be careful of its usage (referring to a previous comment). Posted information about the Node Collaborators GitHub team.

57:20 - Final Comments

Bryan Hughes: Asked for final comments.

Julia Pagano: Do we want to hold meetings regularly, or ad hoc?

Ashley Williams: Recommended holding them regularly, as it makes it easier for people to attend.

Kat Marchan: Asked how everyone felt the meeting went.

Ashley Williams: Felt it had been productive, but wished we could have had a more diverse set of voices. Increasing visibility and accessibility of meetings is important part of this. Liked the structure of meeting, recommended ending each section with a summary by the moderator.

Julie Pagano: There is a max number of participants to Google Hangouts, so this should be kept in mind

Ashley Williams: Felt like there was a healthy number of participants, maybe could do a few more. Posting issues for meetings so other people can watch as non-participants.

Kat Marchan: It would be good standard practice to have a regular moderator who has had the facilitator training, and that it could be a good service for the WG to provide this training to the community. (notetakers comment: this is being discussed more at https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/28). Recommended reaching out to Jacob Groundwater because he did the first round of training and introduced this style of facilitation to Node.js. Group agreed.

Bryan Hughes: Recommended possibly having rotating participants from the WG to keep the voices diverse but also keep the participant size small.

Ashley Williams: Agreed, once the group got big enough, but didn't think the group is big enough yet to necessitate this. Also noted our ability to get things done will slow down during the holiday season.

Bryan Hughes: Asked for any final comments, none given, adjourned the meeting.

## License

Copyright Node.js Inclusivity Contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
