video:

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdV69lFQrnU

role call:

- ashley williams
- julie pagano
- rich trott
- jona hugger
- beau gunderson

prior to broadcast:

- ashley: who should facilitate?
- julie: in theory rich is assigned
- rich: happy to give it my best
- beau is taking notes

broadcast starts:

- introductions
  - jona: i'm a student
  - rich: i work for UCSF
  - ashley: i work for npm
  - julie: i work for SEED
  - beau: i'm taking notes and i work for personalgenomes.org
- ashley: my main goal for the agenda is to get our charter to a place where we
  can submit it
- rich: ok, we can focus on the charter or look at everything on the agenda
- julie: do we have resources from the TSC in this meeting if we have questions?
- julie: also do we know the steps to submit?
- ashley: that's an open question
- rich: there's a webpage that has the steps
- julie: worthwhile to do in realtime then? or should we do that async
- ashley: async is fine, was just sharing my priority
- rich abdicates facilitation to julie
- julie: is it ok if we go through the agenda items?
- ashley: code of conduct email address; still unfinished & we need to follow
  up on it

task assignment after working group meetings: #58

- julie: i think this is about making sure things get assigned after meetings
- ashley: this is also about sharing the workload of agenda creation and
  assigning issues
- julie: this should be rotated so that it's not just kat doing it
- ashley: **TASK**: get a list of people that we can rotate this task to
  - assigned to julie

private/public balance: #40

- julie: it's a very open-ended topic; what specific questions do we have?
- julie: not sure we should address all of them today
- ashley: this is in the charter & a pain-point between us and the TSC (around
  communication, not intention)
- julie: which spaces are private; which are public; who has access
- julie: what are guidelines for those spaces for maintaining privacy
- julie: clear process & timeline for translating private decisions to public
- julie: "these are the kinds of things we plan on talking about in private and
  why"
- julie: goal is to give clarity around what we're doing; don't want to be seen
  as a shadowy cabal
- ashley: let's look at what the charter says about public/private
- https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/blob/f97556e59edaead7d0bfb476f8445b0a99e196fd/README.md#communication-policy
- rich: something that will come back from the TSC; what incidents does
  "incident response" apply to? for node as a project or just for the working
  group?
- ashley: definitely for the working group, but we also want to help guide
  policy
- julie: that seems to fall under early policy discussions
- ashley: would it be useful to be very explicit re: scope?
- rich: yes, but warning even so it may still be misconstrued
- julie: the top of the doc makes it clear but we should repeat it below as well
- julie: how long will it take between decision and the public version of that?
- julie: important to hold ourselves accountable
- ashley: two weeks? we need time to be able to report the decision and what
  happened as a result of it
- beau/rich: seems reasonable
- julie: sounds like the doc has a good list of types of things that happen in
  private
- julie: but we don't have a list of the private spaces themselves or who has
  access to them
- rich/ashley: that leads into the next agenda item
- ashley: leading into membership discussion
- rich: there's also an open PR from bryan/nebrius about membership:
  https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/pull/32
- julie: do we expect slack to remain private?
- ashley: my thought was that there may be a members-only room
- ashley: but also a room that's open
- julie: still administrative overhead to add people to slack
- rich: maybe we can punt on this as we don't have enough people for a consensus
- ashley: let's make an issue about it
- julie: need to clean the slack if we make it public
- ashley: was thinking maybe we'd just make a brand-new one?

membership: #39

- ashley: what size is an appropriate size for this working group?
- ashley: should it be bigger than 10? we're around there right now
- ashley: i'm a proponent of small groups because they get things done more
  quickly
- julie: want to avoid the too many cooks problem
- rich: most groups between 6-15; target size is 12-15; minimum is 3 (because
  need to have three timezones represented)
- jona: division between working group members and collaborators
- jona: example group: 40 collaborators, 10 members
- ashley: those roles make sense; we have people who want to participate but
  maybe not commit to all of these meetings
- julie: 12-14 sounds good; more than that may be hard
- julie: what is the commitment? if someone does not contribute in x months
  should they move out of core for example
- julie: **TASK**: identify the role/responsibility of being a member
  - assigned to beau
- julie: **TASK**: process for membership (#32 is a good straw proposal for
  this)
  - bryan assigned; will continue to be assigned
- julie: how do we evaluate applicants?
- jona posts this in the chat:
  https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/blob/master/TSC-Charter.md#section-4-establishment-of-the-tsc
- ashley: in the beginning we may not have a formal process
- rich: time check?
- ashley: the form may be a problem if we get many applicants
- ashley: vs. just reaching out to people in specific communities
- rich: other WGs work by inviting collaborators to eventually become members
- ashley: is having a public form the way to do this?
- julie: i think a multi-pronged approach is best here
- ashley: hard to get the form in front of the right people
- julie: documenting who we're considering would be good
- julie: if there's a form it should be an easy form
- rich: i don't think we've turned anyone down from the WG (maybe that's where
  the member/collaborator distinction makes sense)
- ashley: i think i have enough for a membership portion of the charter now
- julie: agreement
- julie: on to the next item?

facilitation: #28

- skipped

proposal for TSC implementing wider process changes: #43

- ashley: i'm excited to work on actual inclusivity & diversity and this item
  seems important for that
- julie: agreement
- julie: this is a big topic; is it too big for today?
- ashley: maybe this is a good one for someone to roll with & create a straw
  proposal for?
- julie: **TASK**: yes, maybe this is a good candidate for the first
  after-holiday meeting?
  - assigned to rich
- ashley: sounds good

moderation in wider node community: #44

- **TASK**: another candidate for a straw proposal
  - assigned to julie

meeting closing

- jona: do we want to assign issues to members right now?
- ashley: in addition to upstreaming things to node and getting involved in
  moderation; another proactive thing we could do is get involved in smaller
  events like an installfest (/w mikael rogers)
- ashley: even just a HOWTO/outreach document would help
- julie: a lot of that documentation exists, we could collect it
- julie: assigning tasks
- (tasks were assigned inline above)
- rich: we should all admire jona's christmas hat
- jona: i'll help out bryan on the membership issue
- **TASK**: put up notes online in a PR
  - beau is assigned
- schedule a next meeting?
- julie: let's do that in slack?
- rich/jona: maybe a doodle?
- rich: this time (10am PST) is bad for korea/japan; OK for india?
- julie: we need to rotate so different groups can participate
- **TASK**: conference inclusivity checklist for organizers
- **TASK**: inclusivity pre-conference program

# License

Copyright Node.js Inclusivity Contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
