2016-01-21 inclusivity WG meeting

- video link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PONibium-Gk
- attendees
  - ashley williams (facilitator)
  - bryan hughes
  - emily rose
  - jeremiah senkpiel
  - kat marchán
  - scott gonzález
  - jona hugger
  - beau gunderson (notes)

## working group operations agenda items

- ashley: welcome to the meeting, we're gonna be working off our agenda that's
  issue #80 in github

### contributing overview (#88)

- ashley: describing deliverables (policy/programs)
- ashley: comments or questions on this PR?
- ashley: looks like no comments/questions

### policy issue structure (#71)

- ashley: bryan worked really hard on the policy issue structure, bryan do you
  want to go over what you did there?
- bryan: the idea is to have a new doc, POLICY_ISSUES.md, to provide structure
  and explicit types of issues (questions, request for change, request for a
  new policy)
- bryan: also defines what type of information we expect for each issue, and
  the focus (what we define as on- and off-topic)
- bryan: charlotte also helped create magic links (links that create a new
  issue with text pre-filled in)
- ashley: for background: we had some runaway issues & by being specific we can
  then point out off-topic comments as derailing (which is a CoC violation)

### admissions form (#32, #70)
### role definitions (#65)
### public/private spaces & cleaning up the slack (#81)

- ashley: we have a form that's live that bryan & jona worked on
- ashley: we've been talking about two roles, a member and a contributor role
- ashley: it does seem clear that we like both the contributor and member roles
  (which would require us to have both public/private spaces)
- jeremiah: what are both roles?
- ashley: members have a time commitment, collaborators want to help but do not
  have a time commitment or access to private WG communications
- bryan: one point is that collaborators are non-voting
- kat: we'll probably want to close this slack and start a new one to reset
  history; we can have a private members channel
- (jona joins)
- conversation re: owning the pupblic/private space, jona agrees to own that
  issue (#81)

### moderation for the greater node community (#79)

- ashley: this came out of a larger issue on nodejs/moderation#25
- ashley: there's a large conversation about Buffer that we've been requested
  to moderate
- ashley: TSC reached out to the inclusivity group
- ashley: additionally, a "tragedy of the commons" where since anyone could
  moderate, no one did
- ashley: inclusivity could serve as a resource when no one stands up to do so,
  or when TSC doesn't have enough distance from the issue
- ashley: this follows up the issue that trott was working on re: upstreaming
  things to the rest of node
- ashley: it's neat that we're being asked this by the rest of the node
  community
- kat: so the inclusivity group would actually do moderation?
- kat: i'm surprised because it seemed like they didn't want us to do moderation
- kat: is there still discomfort around that? did something change?
- ashley: the original fear was that just by being inclusivity we would
  magically become moderators, but now they kind of see us as a resource that
  they can request
- jeremiah: my understanding is that it would kind of fall back to the
  inclusivity group if no one else stood up
- jeremiah: a fallback, or a default
- bryan: i asked that question in the thread, people seemed to remember the
  discomfort but seem fine with it now; also we've defined our charter & have a
  defined scope now (so it's not a power grab)
- scott: what's the scope of the moderation group?
- ashley: my understanding: the entire nodejs community on github, and IRC
- jeremiah: as clarification, there's no moderation working group, but a
  private repo we collaborate on to do moderation
- kat: so mechanically would it be the TSC + inclusivity?
- ashley: i think they would tap us when they need help
- emily: that sounds vague & like it might not work
- emily: kind of sounds like "we'll take care of it until we're burnt out, and
  then you can deal with it"
- emily: need something more concrete, a chain of command
- emily: also it just being a private repo doesn't sit right with me
- emily: and having been an IRC moderator for several years i know moderation
  is something we'll be dealing with frequently
- jona: concern re: abuse of power (deleting comments, etc.)
- jeremiah: a note, for github it falls to the TSC because the TSC are owners
  on the github org and thus are the only people with the ability to ban people
  (not that we do that lightly)
- ashley: history: that private moderation repo is somewhat new (to track bans
  & reasons)
- ashley: this does need to be significantly more fleshed out
- ashley: we have the opportunity to write something up & ask what they think
- ashley: emily are you interested in this?
- emily: more than happy to be involved in discussions re: the mechanism of
  inclusivity group in moderation (but not ready to own it yet)
- ashley: the relationship between github and irc has been changing in the last
  two weeks (to include irc more)
- ashley: bryan/kat had hands raised, do you want to help too?
- bryan: yes i'm interested
- emily: just want to get a feel for how the group works first
- scott: we could also have people who just do moderation; developer advocates
  for example; sometimes people have moderation privileges in one medium and
  not others (like IRC for example)
- scott: spread out across a larger group than just the WG; people can moderate
  their specific area and escalate to the WG
- bryan: there was discussion in the moderation thread, one idea was a list of
  volunteers for moderation; my understanding was that we could help define
  more of the moderation processes that could be used there
- emily: i have tons to add but happy to add to future moderation meetings

### TSC nomination request (#78)

- ashley: now that we're ratified (yay!) the TSC has asked for a nomination
- jeremiah: the TSC has been looking at its composition recently
- jeremiah: the TSC would like someone from the inclusivity group to be
  nominated; the timeline is unspecified
- jeremiah: if you have questions about that feel free to ask me
- ashley: jona & i are both running for node board of directors, we asked if we
  could postpone the nomination until after that election (january 30th)
- ashley: there is an issue filed, we can ask questions there

## working group activities

- ashley: what is the activities section? it's about what we're doing/have done
- ashley: chakracore was opensourced, good job to everyone who participated in
  giving them advice
- ashley: rick waldron opened an issue re: creating issue labels for people who
  are getting into opensource
- ashley: anything else?
- ashley: there are several other communities getting codes of conduct in
  place; if they wanted to reach out we could provide advice/support (like we
  did with chakracore)
- beau: i think that's great
- bryan: we've learned a lot recently, i think we can help

## open PRs

- ashley: we don't have any! good job, go team! :sparkles:

## deliverables

- ashley: scheduling, we've been working on a two week cadence,
  objections/questions/comments?
- beau: i think it's been good
- ashley: cool we'll keep working with it until it doesn't work
- ashley: trott has filed an issue for rotating times
- ashley: comments re: rotating times?
- jona: one of the times is 2am in my timezone, which isn't great
- ashley: unsure if participation has been because of time or other reasons, so
  want to be sure we don't schedule at a time that's inconvenient for most of
  us if it doesn't affect attendance
- kat: meeting participation can also be via comments on PRs/issues
- kat: and possibility to have micro-meetings too for other timezones
- ashley: sounds like we have another deliverable, which is a policy for
  scheduling meetings
- ashley: anyone else who wants to help trott with the scheduling stuff?
- beau: i would
- jeremiah: another note, i'm setting up a nodejs calendar that will have all
  the meetings on it org-wide
- scott: is there a policy re: voting and quorum? (comes into play if we split
  up meetings, or if people can't attend, and this seems to be the area where we
  make final decisions)
- jeremiah: do we inherit that from a WG document at the TC level?
- jeremiah: i think TC defines quorum as 60%
- ashley: scott if you want to write a straw proposal for that it would be great
- ashley: by monday try to comment on the rotating meeting times, then on
  monday we'll figure out a meeting time
- ashley: we also have something else to schedule which is exciting, we've had
  several people apply to be members/collaborators to the group; need to land
  role definitions first
- ashley: is late next week viable to review those? (there are 3 of them)
- ashley: want to review them in timely fashion but want to make sure roles are
  solidified first
- ashley: beau, have something by friday?
- beau: yes
- ashley: preference for day of week for next meeting? thurs/fri/saturday?
- (no preference)
- ashley: what do we want to accomplish in the next two weeks?
- ashley: i added some things
  - roles (#65)
  - asking nodejs team to change "gender" to "gender identity & expression"
    (#82)
  - program: beginner's guide to contributing to node (#86)
    - jeremiah: making a new document or improving existing ones?
    - ashley: a new document, though take into account current documents (or
      merge); not like a CONTRIBUTING.md but more like a micro-site for new
      contributors
    - jeremiah: we currently have a CONTRIBUTING.md and a collaborator guide,
      and a PR with even more information
    - ashley: coalescing things is great
    - jona: should this be on the node website too?
    - ashley: great idea
    - bryan: at the org level (github.com/nodejs) there's no CONTRIBUTING.md
      (not a github feature), but there is a link to the website
    - jeremiah: docs WG will be in node core, and tooling will put docs onto
      the website from there
    - scott: meta-comment: if you're hesitant (ashley mentioned technical
      challenge of pulling docs from many repos) then it may be overwhelming
    - jeremiah: the idea is that all docs live in node core repo (so not
      pulling from multiple sources)
  - a history of this WG (#85)
    - jeremiah: like a 'git history' of the WG
- ashley: anything else we want to see in the next two weeks?
- (no)
- emily: thank you all for being who you are & doing what you do <3
