# 2016-04-21 inclusivity wg meeting

- agenda: https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/124

## video

- http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uju515WQQ3I

## before meeting start

- tabling medium term goals since not many of us could attend

## attendees

- Bryan Hughes (moderating)
- Rich Trott
- Scott González
- Beau Gunderson (taking notes)

## meeting start

### working group operations

- bryan: onboarding of new members: julian & charlotte, hope to see them in the
  next meeting & we're excited to have them both
- bryan: last step for onboarding is to get julian/charlotte & scott onto the
  mailing list

### slack inviter

- bryan: scott, give us a rundown of the slack inviter?
- scott: it's up and running; there's a link from the contributing guidelines
- scott: the CONTRIBUTING.md file on the repo has a link; it will pull your
  email from github when you authorize and then send you an invite to slack
- bryan: has anyone else joined yet? i guess not
- scott: we could tweet about it?
- bryan: we could add it to the README as well?
- bryan: **TODO**: i'll add a blurb near the top
- bryan: there's also an open issue re: a bug
- scott: that bug (issue #123) is fixed now

### team cleanup

- bryan: there were a lot of other people on the github team from when we first
  started talking at nodeconf; i removed everyone who wasn't a member & created
  an issue so there would be transparency as to the reason why people were
  removed
- scott: i think we can just close that issue now
- beau: agreed

### scheduling

- bryan: do we want to continue with a shared calendar? is that useful?
- beau: i would love a shared calendar for our meetings

### closing

- bryan: shortest meeting yet! ✨
