# Inclusivity WG Meeting 05-May-2016

##Attendees

* Charlotte Spencer (@charlotteis)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel (@fishrock123)
* Scott Gonzalez (@scottgonazlez)
* Bryan Hughes (@nebrius, facilitating)
* Rich Trott (@trott, notes)
* Julián Duque (@julianduque)

## Medium-terms Agenda

* Bryan: Day-to-day operations are up and running (Slack inviter, etc.). We need to figure out what we're going to do over the next 3-6 months. We don't need an exact list, but we need to get the conversation going.

### Moderation

* Bryan: One thing I think we should work on is issue #132: Proposal for Project-Wide Moderation Framework. How do we do moderation, assign moderators, etc. We've had dust-ups recently (like the Promises thread) and my hope is that when we have this framework in place, we can have less vitriol and less instances of people leaving conversations.

* Charlotte: I'm certainly interested in doing it. I've seen how stressful the dust-ups can be and I'd like people to have a nicer day.

* Rich: Yes! Yes! Yes! We've come a long way, but we still have a lot better we can do.

* Bryan: My idea is that there are three groups involved in moderation that handle different parts of it to distribute the workload and to prevent any one group being in charge of it.

* Bryan: Inclusivity WG would come up with policies and proposals and pass them to the TSC.

* Bryan: TSC would hammer it out and get them finalized. They would handle things at a high level, especially forming a moderation team.

* Bryan: The Moderation Team consists of people that volunteer and hopefully have some training in this sort of thing. And then one person can be assigned from the Moderation Team when incidents arrive.

* Bryan: This makes sure that we have one and only one person moderating a thread.

* Bryan: There is a repo called nodejs/moderation that we all have access to but that is not world-accessible. We would probably keep it but add some process around it.

* Rich: We do need to figure out what to do with super-active things where one person, who needs to sleep or go to work or whatever, can't possibly be expected to do it in a timely fashion.

* Bryan: Moderator should be impartial (i.e., uninvolved) person.

* Jeremiah: It can be overwhelming for one person to do everything. 

**Unanimous agreement that this should be something the group does over the next 3-6 months.**

* Jeremiah: Rust has a moderation team. We should look at their process and talk to them about their experience.

### Continuous Translation for Important Discussions (#102)

* Bryan: Communication in heated issues can happen so quickly that it's hard for non-native English speakers to keep up. There's been some ad hoc work on this front. The idea here is to formalize it and put some process around it to make it reliable and robust.

* Julián: This will be unidirectional? Or bidirectional? 

* Jeremiah: I think we need to watch scope on this. It can become impractical very quickly. Unless we're going to have the foundation hire translators or something.

* Scott: Does anyone know of other projects that do this?

* Julián: I know after the io.js fork, there were a lot of language groups created. Those people may be a resource that could be tapped.

* Charlotte: This is a huge project so how about as a first go we just work out something small, like how to identify a thread that should be a candidate for translation.

* Rich: I like that. It keeps the scope manageable.

* Jeremiah: The concern I have with this is that I have not really seen particularly positive feedback from people in the language groups. It's mostly been us concerned about them. I'd like to see people who would be served by it saying they want this.

* Bryan: I think that's a good point. It seems to come up now and then, but it does feel very ad hoc and I don't feel like I have a good feel of the demand for this hypothetical service.

* Charlotte: Maybe to reduce scope even further, we reach out to who we can and find out if there is interest.

**Determine if this is a program we want to move forward with based on demand for it.**

### Issue #61: Inclusivity Checklist for Conference Organizers 

* Rich: I think others are doing this and there's nothing Node-specific about it. We can curate some links to quality resources, though.

* Charlotte: Agreed. There's an amazing amount of resources if you look in the right places, so let's refer people to the experts.

* Bryan: I agree too. 

* Scott: Any conferences run by the foundation, we'd want a list of minimum requirements.

* Julián: I agree.

* Charlotte: I agree.

**Come up with a small guide, leveraging other resources, that would be our suggested minimum requirements for inclusivity in foundation-run projects.**

### Issue #62: Pre-conference Education Event

* Charlotte: Ashley has done this for the one-day workshops (Node Together).

* Jeremiah: Let's reach out to her and see if she has material prepared that we can re-use.

**Get status from Ashley.**

### Issue #96: Getting started in Node.js

* Jeremiah: There's two possible things this can be. A "getting started" thing like NodeSchool, or a "getting started as a contributor to core" thing. Those are two very different things. Which are we talking about?

* Charlotte: I'm interested in both. When I read this issue, I envisaged a reasonably-sized guide to getting started with Node. I think Jona had that idea too. I think it's something really missing from our public pages. Internals is interesting too, but that's two separate issues.

* Jeremiah: I agree.

* Rich: I agree too.

* Scott: Is this work we would do or would advise documentation and core?

* Rich: Collaboration.

* Jeremiah: Yeah, I don't think one group owns this.

* Rich: We should make sure it happens, work on it a bit, collaborate with other groups to get it done, work to ensure pedagogical quality, because that's really lacking in some of our resources.

* Charlotte: As a secondary and as-important reward, it would involve more collaboration with other Working Groups. I've discovered recently that WG's don't really talk to each other, and this would be an excellent opportunity to get collaboration started.

* Jeremiah: Docs working group!

* Bryan: Tracy Hinds!

* Charlotte: Good idea!

* Bryan: We should get the ball rolling?

* Rich: And keep the ball rolling and make sure it is rolling in the right direction.

* Bryan: Medium term?

* Charlotte: At least a plan. If more than just a plan, then that's a bonus.

**Devise a plan for both getting-started-with Node and getting-started-as-a-contributor.**

### Documenting programs (meta-issue)

* Bryan: We've never documented/defined stuff like outreach, so this issue is defining what is a program, what does it mean, that sort of thing. Everything else we talked about is tagged as `program`.

### Addendum

* Bryan: Anything else we should talk about?

* Jeremiah: We have a need for an IRC moderation policy. IRC has some technicalities and things around it that don't quite fit into our GitHub policy. I'm going to send a draft to the TSC repo. 

* Charlotte: I'd love to see it.

* Jeremiah: I'll post a link to it. There's also other issues around how to determine who is an operator etc.

* Bryan: Would you like help? People in this group or maybe Emily Rose?

* Jeremiah: Already talked to Emily Rose, actually. I think it will be helpful once there's a draft out, for people to review it and such.

* Charlotte: If you post a link to the PR or issue in Slack, I'd love to take a look.

* Julián: Are going to keep an eye on Gitter as well or we don't consider it official?

* Jeremiah: Gitter has some issues with moderation, definitely.

* Rich: We need to either moderate them or stop pointing people to them. I'll open an issue in the Inclusivity repo for this.

* Bryan: TSC repo?

* Rich: I don't know, we should probably collect a bunch of data in the Inclusivity repo first, then bring it to the TSC.

* Charlotte: I think Inclusivity to collate info is good, then TSC.

* Jeremiah: If you go to the TSC directly, they'll probably just say: don't use Gitter.

