# 2016-01-08 inclusivity wg meeting

## video

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PSF0oBQ4Gwg

## meeting start

- ashley: i'll be facilitating, beau will be taking notes
- ashley: shall we do introductions?

## attendees

- ashley williams
- rich trott
- julie pagano
- jeremiah senkpiel
- beau gunderson (notes)

## working group updates

- ashley: ratification PR can be filed today
- ashley: parallel effort to improve working group documents (nodejs/tsc#26)
- ashley: inclusivity@iojs.org also ready
- jeremiah: inclusivity@ email still needs to be enabled (but it's merged now)
- jeremiah: also noting that it's iojs.org because of technical limitations,
  someday it could be nodejs.org
- ashley: that's fine
- ashley: questions on those two updates? (none)

## admissions

- ashley: i'd like to open up a conversation on admissions; bryan & jona have
  worked on a form
- ashley: what are everyone's thoughts? merge the form? is a form overkill?
- julie: having the form be the only thing we do would be bad
- julie: it should be a piece but not the only thing we do (we need more, like
  outreach)
- julie: the form does ask for useful information
- beau: questions: how many members? & are collaborators accepted as well?
- ashley: let's decide whether to merge/not merge the form
- *(kat joins)*
- ashley: three goals:
- ashley: outreach efforts
- ashley: cleanup efforts for slack/member list
- ashley: also want to get us onto a two week cycle for deliverables
- julie: size of group; we talked last week about a dozen people (similar to
- sizes of other groups)
- ashley: anything else about operations? (no)

## microsoft feedback

- kat: rod vagg sent an email about chakra core project which is being
  opensourced at the end of the month
- kat: they asked specifically about codes of conduct
- kat: we concluded they were basing their CoC on the contributor covenant
- kat: we pointed out that they need an emphasis on enforcement; safety of
  marginalized people vs. comfort
- kat: they took it all well
- kat: responsibility to take action if an event happens
- kat: they're taking the line from the open code of conduct re: prioritizing
  marginalized people's safety
- ashley: **TASK**: since we value transparency should we make that response
  public?
- kat: if we publish anything we should wait until chakra core is opensource
- ashley: maybe it could be a FAQ-style response that doesn't pertain
  specifically to chakra?
- jeremiah: agree with kat's points
- kat: **TASK**: we should ask them first if they'll be ok with that

## open PRs

- ashley: first PR: issue structure for the contributing guide
- ashley: was anyone able to review? (no)
- ashley: this came out of experiencing a lot of derailment on the github
  issues; kat suggested having a specific set of requirements for filing issues
  (and an issue structure)
- ashley: this limits irrelevant feedback
- ashley: someone to review this PR?
- beau: **TASK**: i'll review it
- ashley: any other comments on this?

## upstreaming policies

- ashley: trott, can you comment on this?
- rich: background: there was a lot of concern about this WG unilaterally
  imposing its concerns on others
- rich: we thought it would be a good idea to document how we believe any
  proposals we come up with would be processed by the larger foundation/TSC
- rich: mikeal suggested since we're just documenting the way things are that
  we might as well put it in the TSC docs
- ashley: i also linked to it in the agenda
- ashley: those are the two open PRs i wanted to cover today; is there anything
  else we should cover? (no)

## what would we like to do?

- ashley: i'd like us to get on a two week cycle
- trott: it's a good starting number
- ashley: pick a day of the week for meetings (though we can shift the time for
  timezones)
- trott: hard to pick a day since two times in the same US day might be two
  different days in other countries
- trott: **TASK**: maybe just having three times we cycle through?
- jeremiah: not always possible to fit things into the same day; examples of
  australia and india
- ashley: end goal is to limit the times to offer more predictability

## what can we get done in the next two weeks?

- ashley: **TASK**: deliverables around membership and admissions
- ashley: **TASK**: timezones/meeting times
- beau: **TASK**: roles & responsibilities of a member (julie will help review)
- jeremiah: **TASK**: getting admissions done would be good
- julie: the list of things we have right now is pretty good (we shouldn't pile
  too much on)
- kat: **TASK**: i should probably email ashe & start the process of getting
  her onboard to help a bit
- trott: **TASK**: i'd like to see us get chartered
- trott: not a formal deliverable, but like to see us being able to kick around
  concrete ideas about what we'd like to do (proposals, events, outreach, etc.)
- trott: less process, more action
- ashley: 4+ million thumbs up to that
- ashley: super eager to see that happen, assuming everything moves forward
  that seems like something we can do
- everyone agrees to adjourn meeting early since we've covered everything we
  wanted to

# License

Copyright Node.js Inclusivity Contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
