# [2016-06-07 inclusivity wg meeting](https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/139)

## video

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wwn-pL5LKlg

## attendees

- Bryan Hughes (moderator)
- Charlotte Spencer
- Jona Hugger
- Julián Duque
- Scott González
- Beau Gunderson (notes)

## assigning people to issues

## #132 - "project-wide facilitation framework"

- bryan: i've been doing some work on this but i'm open to others helping as
  well
- charlotte: what work have you been doing?
- bryan: fleshing out the proposal (which is a bottleneck i think)
- bryan: runbooks are a piece that will be helpful
- charlotte: runbook?
- bryan: 'if you encounter this, here are the steps to take'; a book of
  scenarios so reactions can be predictable/repeatable
- bryan: **TODO** i can continue to spearhead this one

## project management

- bryan: a project manager would be helpful for these; someone to herd cats
  would help... what do people think?
- charlotte: sounds good
- beau: agreed
- scott: **TODO** i can do this!

### #102 - "continuous translation for important threads"

- charlotte: need to reach out to someone who can give feedback re: how
  important this is
- bryan: maybe we can open an issue in the i18n group to request feedback?
- charlotte: 'here's an issue we've been talking about; we don't want to go
  further until we get feedback'
- scott: there was some question as to whether people were looking for this
- scott: history documented
  [here](https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/102#issuecomment-211152797)
- bryan: takeaway: figure out if there's demand
- scott: issue open for half a year; have comments from translators but no
  comments from people saying they would benefit from this
- scott: need to find people who would benefit from this
- charlotte: could just be a comment in the issue to individuals
- scott: yeah just ping people willing to do translations
- jona: could do this as well as asking in the i18n groups
- scott: could ask the linux foundation
- scott: or google; or other larger companies what they do for translations
- bryan: focus seems to be on translating the product; here we're talking about
  translating the discussions
- scott: (positing that if a large company like microsoft isn't doing internal
  discussion translations that maybe it's not a large issue)
- bryan: the key is to do the investigation; that can be a part of this issue
- scott: **TODO** i can talk to mozilla

### #61 - "inclusivity checklist/guide for conference organizers"

- scott: would recommend talking to jory burson from bocoup
- beau: **TODO** happy to lead this one
- charlotte: **TODO** happy to provide a brain-dump since i've been thinking
  about this

### #62 - "pre-conference education event"

- (some talk about what to do with this; maybe just reach out to ashley)
- scott: maybe this becomes a bullet point of #61?
- bryan: charlotte, can you get in touch with ashley; can we close it and roll
  it into #61? and thoughts on #61 moving forward
- charlotte: **TODO** yes

### #96 - "getting started in node"

- bryan: two possible meanings to this; i forget where we left off
- charlotte/jona: i remember
- charlotte: on the front-end, making it easier to know where to go to get
  started
- charlotte: interested in getting a good getting started site
- jona: **TODO** i'm also interested in that
- julián: is there a WG that's working on 'getting started' or education?
- jona: not a group that does just this; some individuals are
- beau: i think docs does some of this
- julián: current activity for evangelism is maintaining nodejs weekly;
  individually attending events
- julián: want to find out who's going to do this work (inclusivity?
  evangelism?)
- jona: maybe a WG is the right choice? we need to discuss into
- charlotte: want to reach out to tracy as well
- bryan: a coalition would be helpful for this
- scott: tracy + docs + evangelism
- charlotte: and us maybe
- bryan: do you want to work on this then?
- scott: **TODO** yes

### #91 - "document program issue structure"

- charlotte: what does program mean here?
- bryan: a program is a service we provide for other groups
- charlotte: not sure i have a good enough idea of what this would mean to
  facilitate on it right now
- bryan: shall we punt on this for now?
- scott: do we need to keep this issue open?
- (talk re: what this issue is which i documented in the issue description
  itself)
- scott: it's been open for a half of a year and hasn't been an issue yet; i
  think we can close and reopen if it becomes an issue
- charlotte: easy enough to reopen an issue
- bryan: **TODO** i'll close this issue then and document the resolution

### #138 - IRC moderation

- myles already assigned here

## closing

- bryan: does this time work for everyone?
- everyone: yes
- bryan: **TODO** ok i'll schedule the next meeting so we can start to get on a
  cadence
- bryan: thanks for watching!

## notes disclaimer from Beau

i'm not a professional notetaker but i think it's important to have some
text-based representation of what happens at these meetings--because of this
i'm often summarizing multiple sentences into a single thought and in doing so
may insert some of my own biases or summarize incorrectly as i catch up on
what people are saying--meaning that this is an imperfect record.
