# [2016-04-07 inclusivity wg meeting](https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/115)

## video

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vxIoSyyBDhs

## attendees

- Bryan Hughes (facilitating)
- Rich Trott (notes)
- Jona Hugger
- Julie Pagano
- Scott Gonzalez


## Use The Foundation’s YouTube Channel 

- https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/107 
- Bryan: Resolved! This meeting is on the Foundation’s YouTube Channel.

## Create a history document

- https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/85
- Bryan: Mostly done, but there are a few nits/issues. One is that there is a flat list of members in the README, but in the history page, we list when people are added. Right now, those lists are in sync, but they may not be. In one they are called "Members", but in the other it says "Initial Membership". Those sorts of things will hopefully get ironed out. William K. is active in that issue.
- Scott: “Current Members” should be title in README. For history doc, list all current and previous members in one list, or have two lists (one for current and one for previous). It might make sense to just do the one list because we already have the list of active users in README.
- Julie: I concur. We can split it up later if we want to.
- Bryan: I’m wary of singling out people who are no longer members.
- Julie: That’s a really good point. Let’s just have one list in the history doc. No need to split them up.
- Bryan: It is still possible to figure it out. But it takes some work.
- Scott: If there’s one list, we don’t take an action when someone becomes a past member. But if we have two lists, there will be notifications and stuff from PRs, etc.
- Bryan: Good point. There will still be notification from the PR for the README, though.
- Scott: Settled then? We’ll just change the title on the README to say “Current Members” and the history doc for “Current and Past Members”.
- Bryan: Yes. I’ll submit a PR. We can bikeshed on terms and stuff.

## Create page for community members to join our Slack team

- https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/111
- Scott: The goal is to enable public access to the Slack channel. We are using an undocumented Slack API to invite members. Slack acknowledges that people use this, and they make no promises about it, although they won’t break it on purpose. For now it works, and others are using it. The PR has the bare minimum implementation. It gives you access to our public channels. GitHub account needs to exist for 30 days to make it harder to create throwaway accounts to join and cause trouble.
- Bryan: We are intentionally linking this to GitHub authentication so we can take moderation activity in the GitHub repos too if we need to.
- Julie: Sounds good to me. As long as we have language that says “If you have a problem, here’s how you get in touch with us.”
- Bryan: I was going to include the inclusivity email.
- Jona: They can open an issue on the GitHub repo.
- Bryan: Good point. I hadn’t considered that. Although then it is a public request rather than a private request.
- Julie: Yeah, I don’t want to make people file a GitHub issue if they don't want to.
- Jona: Yeah, make it a choice. Issue or email.
- Scott: You can’t hide your email in Slack, so once you join, you’ve publicly given your email to everyone on the team.
- Bryan: Maybe we should add a disclaimer on the sign-up page. Maybe they’ll want to change their email to an anonymous one after they join.
- Julie: Who has admin on Slack for moderation?
- Scott: Every working group member.
- Julie: Cool.
- Bryan: Jona is the primary owner, Ashley and I are owners, every other WG member is an admin. Everyone else will be a regular user.
- Julie: Great.
- Bryan: I want us to use public channels as much as possible. We should be as transparent as possible, with the acknowledgment that some things cannot be. Code of Conduct on GitHub also applies to Slack.

## Inclusivity Slack Inviter

- https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity-slack-inviter/pull/1
- Bryan: We have a new repo (inclusivity-slack-inviter), purely code. It’s all node code, take a look, give some feedback, change some wording, make backend more robust. I’m also OK with just getting it out there and we can improve it later. Anything to add Scott?
- Scott: No, everything that I wanted, I left a comment specifically about, and I think you responded to everything.
- Bryan: I’ll go through again and make sure. We should fill out the README more, link back to the Inclusivity WG etc. 
- Scott: We could push it live today. It’s just not the prettiest thing right now.
- Bryan: Maybe get in the disclaimer about emails being visible, and then maybe get it live as soon as possible.
- Scott: Yeah. I don’t know how we manage deployments.
- Rich: I’ll find out what the deal is there.

## Deliverables
- **TASK:** Bryan will craft response message to recent applicants. Will wordsmith in the private Slack channel.
- **TASK:** Bryan will submit a PR for the history doc and README membership lists per discussion above.
- **TASK:** Rich will find out if we have any hosting/deployment resources available or if we’re on our own.
- What do we want to accomplish in the next two weeks?
  - **TASK:** Scott: Finish up the Slack-inviter
  - **TASK:** Bryan: Follow up with Jeremiah and Emily to figure out how to get the Moderation Policy finished (hopefully in the next two weeks)
  - **TASK:** Bryan: Schedule next meeting
  - **TASK:** Jona: Will remind Bryan to schedule the next meeting. :-P

# License

Copyright Node.js Inclusivity Contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
