# [2016-03-03 inclusivity wg meeting](https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/issues/103)

## video

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j_zlOIdDqyE

## attendees

- Bryan Hughes (facilitator)
- Kat March√°n
- Julie Pagano
- Jona Hugger
- Jeremiah Senkpiel
- Rich Trott
- Beau Gunderson (notes)

## identify the roles and responsibilities; #65

- [pull request](https://github.com/nodejs/inclusivity/pull/101) is open
- julie: one point of discussion was what the roles should be; we've now
  clarified that we have Members and Non-Members; Non-Members are contributors
  in good standing
- julie: we still need more discussion re: guidelines for commitment
- bryan: maybe participation depends on role; like notetaking might be less
  able to not participate for 5 months
- julie: i think 5 months is probably too long for anyone
- bryan: maybe it's meeting attendance?
- julie: meetings can be hard for people due to workday/timezone
- bryan: keep it vague so we can land the document?
- jona: sounds good to me for a temporary guideline
- bryan: thoughts kat?
- kat: pretty much agree; some people like myself have occasional bursts of
  activity and i think we should allow that
- bryan: do we have a limit on the number of Members?
- bryan: can we get into the situation where having one person as a Member
  means someone else can not be a Member?
- julie: maybe we should take out the size target from the document?
- beau: ashley also wanted small groups for agility/speed
- kat: larger groups add a breadth of viewpoints
- bryan: if the group does get too big we'll probably "know it when we see it"
- bryan: we can deal with it when we get there
- bryan: anything else needs clarification?
- julie: nothing else; i'll clean it up over the weekend; want people to
  re-read it next week

## create a history document; #85

- bryan: PR open; comments addressed
- bryan: need someone to land it
- bryan: objections?
- jona: i can merge it now

## continuous translation threads; #102

- bryan: might be a good idea to wait on this one until we look into new
  members; might have some good contributions here
- bryan: anything to add before the next two week period?
- jeremiah: this sounds like it's going to be a huge amount of work
- kat: it is but we already have some people doing this work
- kat: promises for example; huge effect on the community but lack of input
  from non-english speakers
- jeremiah: are we looking for more organization around that? a central place
  for this work?
- kat: yes, and also to tap into the existing structures (translation teams)
- jeremiah: translation teams kind of went away after iojs website
- kat: urgency was from promises; now that that's cooled off the urgency is
  less
- bryan: agreed
- bryan: deliverable is someone to talk about this at the next meeting

## inclusivity working group as default moderation team; #79

- bryan: probably equally important as the translation threads
- bryan: i did some initial work here; the idea is that we have a CoC for node
  and a moderation policy that talks about the "what" that happens, procedures,
  etc. but my feeling is that this document is lacking the "how"; training for
  moderation and selecting who is doing the moderation
- bryan: want to codify that with this document
- bryan: we would serve as the first moderation group
- julie: the idea is that we would be doing moderation for a while? would there
  be a moderation WG?
- bryan: an open question; not sure if it would be a WG or something else
- jeremiah: at the very least we should make a recommendation
- julie: i want to make sure moderation doesn't become this WG's full time job;
  and also want to shield us from some of the anger people have about
  moderation
- jeremiah: i don't think the TSC would nominate a specific WG to do this;
  maybe appoint a group of people to do this
- kat: i like the symmetry/checks and balances we get from having the TSC that
  finalizes the CoC decisions; moderation group that handles the moderations;
  inclusivity WG being the proposal system for changing CoC/moderation policy
- (vigorous agreement with kat)
- bryan: we should propose who this group should be to the TSC
- bryan: process first; people later
- bryan: what should we do in the next two weeks?
- bryan: maybe a high level proposal for what this should look like?
- kat: the system itself & ideas for where to take it
- bryan: deliverable will be a PR for this document that defines the
  group/relationship

## tsc request for nomination; #78

- bryan: we discussed that earlier; we don't have a specific person yet but
  we'll work over the next two weeks; deliverable is to have a nominee

## rotating meeting time; #74

- bryan: added to the agenda for the next meeting due to us reaching the hour
  time limit for this meeting

## deliverables for next meeting

- **TASK:** updated roles/responsibilities (julie to update)
- **TASK:** history document (jona has now merged)
- **TASK:** moderation team document (bryan/emily)
- **TASK:** have a TSC nominee (jeremiah to drive this)

# License

Copyright Node.js Inclusivity Contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
